Millions of investors will receive year-end statements from their brokerages and retirement plan managers in the coming weeks, and the great majority of them will have unpleasant news: losses.The S&P 500 finished the year down 6.2 percent, with the steepest declines recorded in the fourth quarter. With Apple’s announcement of disappointing sales in China on Wednesday, the bad times for stocks continued in the first week of the new year. While most economic data has remained strong, there are some rumblings that 2019 may be quite a bit rougher than 2018. Corporate executives are becoming more pessimistic, according to surveys, and Americans are conducting Google searches for the word “recession” at the highest rate since the last one just ended in 2009.If it all makes you want to flee — or at least shift your 401(k) into cash — that’s understandable. It’s also a bad idea.The sensible response to this unnerving series of developments is to do pretty much anything else. Read a book. Go for a walk. Take up knitting. Or just do nothing at all, like take a nap. If you are a long-term investor (and any money you have tied up in the stock market should be intended for the long term to begin with), tumult like that of the last few months isn’t something that should cause panic. Rather, it’s the price you pay for enjoying returns that, over long time horizons, are likely to be substantially higher than those for cash or bonds.That’s true if this episode turns out to be a false alarm for the overall economy, as is a distinct possibility. But it’s also true even if this does turn out to be the start of a prolonged period of economic and market distress — especially if you are still in the phase of your life of contributing to a retirement plan or otherwise accumulating savings.ImageNapping at a brokerage office in Beijing in October.CreditJason Lee/ReutersThe recent pessimistic tone in markets is getting way ahead of the evidence. Nothing so far in either the economic data or the market indicators that most reliably predict economic swings suggests there will be anything worse than a modest slowdown in economic growth in 2019.Businesses are still expanding and adding jobs. The yield on two-year Treasury bonds has fallen in the last three months, but it would have fallen a lot more if the bond market — which tends to be closely tied to the direction of the overall economy — had been predicting an imminent recession.Moreover, an investor who moved money into cash now would be doing so just as the valuation of stocks was becoming more favorable — buying high and selling low, not the way great fortunes are made. That’s especially true when you factor in the drop in longer-term interest rates, which makes shares particularly appealing relative to bonds.In early November, investing $100 in stocks would buy you about $4.64 worth of corporate earnings, versus the $3.21 in interest you would could receive by investing in 10-year Treasury bonds. Now, stocks offer $5.25, while bonds offer only $2.61.But most important, even if the economic road ahead really is as bumpy as some in markets seem to fear, you’re probably not going to be successful at timing those swings just right.Of course, if you had a perfect ability to predict how far the market would fall and when it would bottom out, it would make sense to move money in and out. You do not.There is a wide range of evidence that people are pitiful at timing the market. Even supposed investment experts lack that prescience. Even if you turned out to be right about a continuing tumble in 2019, the great risk would be that whenever the rebound began, you would be caught out of position, unable to take advantage.Suppose you were clever enough to recognize at the start of December 2007 that a major recession was about to take place, and you moved your money out of stocks.Yes, you would have saved yourself from steep losses in 2008 and early 2009. But you have to ask yourself: Would I have also had the courage to put money back in while the economy was still in horrendous shape in 2009, with double-digit unemployment and a banking system in tatters?If not then, when would you have moved money back in? People who simply left their savings fully invested in the stock market in December 2007 have now made a 134 percent return on that money. Would you have done better than that, or would you have missed out on a big chunk of those gains out of the same caution that led you to pull money out of stocks to begin with?People who did not panic in the fall of 2008 — the most panic-worthy time in most of our lifetimes — and kept putting their retirement funds into stocks did indeed incur steep losses over the ensuing months. But their newly invested funds were being put into stocks at the most favorable valuations in a generation, and thus enjoyed the full benefit of the rebound when it eventually came. A truism of economic and financial cycles is that by the time it feels like the coast is clear and putting money into riskier investments is completely safe, the real money has already been made. People who looked at the economic chaos of early 2009 and stuck to their guns have ended up far better off than those who, convinced that a double-dip downturn was imminent, waited for years to get in.This equation changes, of course, if we’re talking about money needed imminently as opposed to longer-term savings, such as for retirement. The economy looks stable now, but that could change — it’s still possible that markets and C.E.O.s know something about the future that isn’t clear in the data yet.But that’s more of a fundamental argument about how your assets should be allocated. If an 18 percent drop in stocks is enough to cause you to change your entire investment strategy, that money shouldn’t have been in stocks to begin with.The entire point of investing in stocks is that you get greater long-term expected returns in exchange for tolerating bigger ups and downs. Episodes like those of the last few weeks are, in effect, the price you pay for returns that are substantially higher than bonds or cash over longer periods. Just as there are no free lunches, there are no excess returns without some volatility and risk.As individual investors, we cannot control volatility. What we can control is our own mind-set and reaction, and the more level your head, the better your long-term results are likely to be.A year ago, in the wake of President Trump’s tax cut, euphoric investors pushed the Dow Jones industrial average past 25,000, a record. The Dow had just gained 25 percent in 2017, and the Nasdaq had leapt 28 percent. Volatility was so low that there wasn’t a single day in 2017 when the S&P 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent.Not everyone was celebrating.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” James Stack, president of InvesTech Research, told me a year ago. “And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”Mr. Stack turned out to be right. He lowered his recommended asset allocation for United States stocks from 82 percent last January to 72 percent in September, when stocks hit new all-time highs. He urged investors to raise cash in October, and at the end of November he recommended an even more defensive posture — including putting money in a fund whose value would rise when stock prices dropped. That brought his recommended net exposure to stocks to just 55 percent, the lowest since the depths of the last bear market in early 2009.Stocks plunged in December, posting their worst monthly loss since the financial crisis and the worst December since 1931 and the Great Depression.Yet most economic indicators are benign. Unemployment is an exceptionally low 3.7 percent. Wages are rising. Inflation remains below the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent target. The Fed raised rates a quarter point in December, citing “a very healthy economy.”Given Mr. Stack’s track record last year, I reached out to him this week for his current views. Even though valuations have come down and macroeconomic indicators “have remained remarkably strong,” he said, he’s still defensive and hasn’t changed his bearish allocation. He believes that the worst isn’t over and that the Dow and S&P 500 will soon be down 20 percent from their peaks, retreating into a bear market. (The Nasdaq Composite and the Wilshire 2000 index of small-cap stocks are already there.)And that was before a revenue warning from Apple sent markets into another steep fall on Thursday.“A lesson from history is that the market leads the economy by a lot longer than investors realize,” Mr. Stack said. If the economy is headed toward recession, as the latest stock market declines suggest it may be, “we won’t see the first economic warning signs until the first three to five months” of 2019. Among the leading indicators he’s watching for signs of weakness are consumer confidence, housing starts and unemployment claims.On Thursday, the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index, a leading indicator of industrial activity, fell sharply. That suggests that “serious cracks” are starting to appear in the economy, Mr. Stack said.Mr. Stack is right that bear markets typically precede recessions by many months: CNBC calculated in 2016 that bear markets since World War II had begun on average about eight months before a recession. That means that if a bear market did begin after major indexes peaked last fall, a recession might not start until June or even later. Even then, recessions are often over before economic data confirms their existence.That’s when bear markets are, in fact, followed by recessions, which often isn’t the case. As the economist Paul Samuelson famously said, “The stock market has forecast nine of the last five recessions.”Since World War II, there have been 13 bear markets. They were followed within a year by a recession just seven times. As a predictor of recessions with just 54 percent accuracy, bear markets are little better than flipping a coin.Indeed, Mr. Stack’s data show that two or more down years in a row are quite rare: There have been only four instances since 1928, suggesting that stocks may well be in positive territory by the end of 2019, even if a bear market does materialize in the meantime.Which is one reason the Wharton economist Jeremy Siegel told me that he’s bullish on the stock market this year. He predicts it could rise between 5 percent and 15 percent, even if there is an economic slowdown.Stocks are much cheaper now than they were before the December sell-off. The ratio between stock prices and projected earnings for companies in the S&P 500 is about 17, down from over 19 a year ago and the lowest in the past five years.[Stocks rose Friday after the release of a strong December jobs report and comments by the chairman of the Federal Reserve that the central bank would be flexible on raising interest rates this year.]Mr. Stack, however, argued that in the event of an economic downturn — or even a significant slowdown — “those projected earnings will go out the window.”“I would not call today’s market undervalued,” he added.Mr. Siegel bases his forecast of a market rally on the belief that the Fed will stop raising short-term interest rates. “I think the Fed got the message from the markets that it should not have hiked in December,” he said.Mr. Stack, too, said he was surprised the Fed raised rates in December. “I think the Fed will stand down and put future rate increases on hold,” he said, “which could stabilize the market, at least for the time being.”But Mr. Stack’s technical indicators are still pointing toward a bear market. He’s also worried about the shaky housing market, with price drops and slowing sales showing up in major cities.“We’re not trying to time the market, but we’re very comfortable with our defensive allocation,” he said. Although he predicted higher volatility a year ago, he was nonetheless surprised by the extremes reached in December, without even “a single hard warning sign of recession on the horizon.”“Can you imagine,” he asked, “how volatile it will be when we do have those warnings?”Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The trade war didn’t seem to discourage Chinese companies from listing their shares on American exchanges last year. In fact, it might have brought more Chinese companies to Wall Street.Tencent Music’s trading debut on the New York Stock Exchange in December capped a wave of Chinese companies going public in the United States. In total, 33 Chinese firms raised $9.2 billion through initial public offerings on American exchanges — up 140 percent from 2017 and the highest level since 2014, according to Dealogic.Of course, 2014 comes with an asterisk of sorts. Alibaba went public in September that year, raising $25 billion. Subtract the value of Alibaba’s offering and Chinese firms raised just $3 billion that year.Last year, however, offerings from Chinese firms dominated the United States market for initial public offerings. The three largest I.P.O.s by market value were Chinese companies. And Chinese firms accounted for four of the 10 largest such offerings in 2018 ranked by amount raised on American exchanges, the most of any country, including the United States, according to Dealogic.Why list in America?American exchanges offer prestige and a broader investor base that Chinese entrepreneurs can find attractive. The United States also offers a quicker route to the public markets. While Chinese regulators have taken steps to reduce the long wait, it still takes 18 months or longer for shares to begin trading from the time a company files to go public. That compares with just 42 days to list in the United States, according to Dealogic.But the trade war may also have been a factor.A slowing Chinese economy and escalating trade tensions dragged down markets in Hong Kong and China before stocks in the United States turned seriously wobbly. At their lows in late October, the Hang Seng stock index and the benchmark stock indexes in Shenzhen and Shanghai were down 15 percent to 35 percent for the year. By comparison, the S & P 500 was still up 2.5 percent at that point, making it far more attractive for offerings.The new year began with another round of choppy trading on Wall Street, as stocks opened sharply lower but recouped their losses after a rise in oil prices lifted shares of energy producers.Volatility has been a defining characteristic of the stock market lately. Investors are trying to gauge the odds of an economic slowdown in the United States, and how such an event might be affected by rising interest rates, uncertainty in American politics and a trade war with China.[Wall Street’s stock pickers are still hopeful about the year ahead, but here are four things they’re worried about.]The tone on Wednesday was initially set by fresh evidence that the Chinese economy, the world’s second largest, is slowing. Factory activity in the country fell last month, according to government and private data released this week, an indication that the trade war is beginning to weigh on Chinese manufacturing.But a spike in crude oil futures helped Wall Street overcome the slump after Bloomberg released data that indicated exports from Saudi Arabia had slowed. The American crude benchmark rose as high as $47.78 a barrel before ending the day at $46.54, up 2.5 percent. In 2018, oil prices experienced their first decline in three years, amid worries about excess supply and softer demand.After falling more than 1.5 percent in early trading, the S & P 500 ended slightly higher for the day. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite fared better, rising 0.5 percent.Shares in oil companies like Exxon Mobil tracked the gains in crude oil, rising more than 2 percent. Other standouts in Wednesday trading included gaming companies like Wynn Resorts, which rose 5.6 percent after the authorities in Macau reported that gaming revenue there rose more than 16 percent in December. Wynn and other American casino operators have a large presence in the territory, which is a destination for wealthy Chinese gamblers.Also notable on Wednesday was a drop in shares of Tesla, the electric carmaker. The stock dropped 6.8 percent after the company announced a price cut that could suggest softer demand.Shares in Asia were broadly lower after the weaker factory data from China. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong dropped 2.8 percent. In China, the Shanghai Composite index fell 1.2 percent and the Shenzhen Composite index 0.9 percent.The Taiex index in Taiwan fell 1.8 percent, while the Kospi in South Korea was down 1.5 percent. Japan’s markets were closed for a holiday.Manufacturing data for the eurozone that was released on Wednesday also showed an across-the-board slowdown in December. But stock benchmarks in Europe also ended well off their lowest levels of the day. After dipping more than 1 percent, the Euro Stoxx 50 was down by 0.33 percent.You’ve heard it before: When the markets become erratic, or seem poised for a prolonged downturn, the best thing you can do is nothing at all. But if you’re on the cusp of retirement — or, perhaps worse, newly retired — a turbulent stock market can make you feel particularly vulnerable.While there’s some validity to those feelings, it’s more productive to redirect any panic into prudence, which will help ensure your money lasts longer. For older people  invested in stocks, the performance of the market in the early years of your retirement can have a lasting effect on your portfolio, which will remain a dynamic entity for perhaps three more decades. If you have to start selling investments when they are worth less, you’ll have to to sell more shares to get the cash you need — and the repercussions build on themselves. “That can really start digging a hole in your portfolio that becomes harder to dig out of,” said Wade Pfau, professor of retirement income at the American College for Financial Services. “It is really the first 10 years of the market performance in retirement that are going to drive your outcome.”While the S&P 500 lost 6.2 percent last year, the final three months of the year were especially volatile. It’s unclear where the market will go tomorrow, or the next decade. But whether you’re getting close to retirement or just starting to work, part of your financial success is a matter of chance: The growth of your portfolio is largely determined by when you started investing and when you retire. Let’s say a person saved 15 percent of her earnings — a flat salary that grew with inflation — during a 30-year career. If that person retired in 1982, she would have accumulated just over five times her final salary. If she retired in 2000, however, she would have amassed 17 times her salary. The same type of variability can occur based on the sequence of your market returns in retirement — except it’s amplified because instead of adding to the money you’ve invested, you’re spending it.There are very simple strategies to try to reduce the effects of an ill-timed downturn or cancel them out altogether: Work longer or pick up a part-time job. Those aren’t feasible for people with health problems, or those who were laid off by their employers a few years shy of when they intended to retire. But they tend to be the most effective ways to help your money last.Here are some other steps retirees can take to lengthen the life of their savings when markets are less than cooperative:Portfolio Check. Retirees need to ask themselves a couple of key questions. Is my portfolio broadly diversified in low-cost investments, such as index funds? Is my allocation to stocks one that my stomach can handle should the market plummet 50 percent, as it did in 2008 and 2009? If you answer “no” to these questions, you should reassess (preferably with a pro) how reducing your stock exposure might change your ability to spend what you want in retirement.Mindful Spending. One of the most widely cited rules for retirement spending might be what’s known as the 4 percent rule. It suggests that retirees who withdrew 4 percent of their initial retirement portfolio balance, and then adjusted that dollar amount for inflation each year thereafter, would have created a paycheck that lasted for 30 years. (The numbers crunched by a financial planner more than two decades ago were based on a portfolio evenly split between stock and bonds.)But if your portfolio value takes a significant hit, your withdrawal rate may have to increase to support your spending. If that rate starts to approach 5 percent, and certainly 6 percent, there’s a greater chance you’ll outlive your portfolio, Mr. Pfau warned. So adjustments may be in order.The simplest way to deal with a dip would be to hold your spending steady, rather than increasing it with inflation. That approach can be enough to steady your finances even if your portfolio were to drop by 25 percent from its original value at retirement, according to Judith Ward, a senior financial planner with T. Rowe Price, based on a recent study. She suggested to keep spending steady for two to four years, depending on when the portfolio rebounds.“Keep in mind, steady spending over a number of years may still result in some kind of spending cuts depending on the inflation environment,” she said. “That may be the easiest and most intuitive approach for many retirees.”Create a Smoother Ride. Traditionally, investors reduce their exposure to stocks as they approach retirement. But one novel approach is to cut that exposure even further — then get back into the market as you age.This strategy, studied by Mr. Pfau and Michael Kitces, director of wealth management at Pinnacle Advisory, is to increase your stock holdings over time. Portfolios that started with about 20 to 40 percent in stocks at retirement, and then gradually increased to about 50 or 60 percent, lasted longer than those with static mixes or those that shed stocks, according to their analysis.Another option is to buy a guaranteed paycheck with a portion of your savings. With an immediate annuity, you pay a lump sum to an insurer in exchange for a guaranteed stream of income for life. A common approach is to consider how much of your must-have basic expenses — like food, shelter, property taxes — are covered by Social Security and any additional income, such as a pension. Then, buy enough annuity income to cover the gap. It also simplifies your financial life, which becomes increasingly important as you age.But be careful with annuities: There are many types, and they can be complex — and not necessarily sold to you by someone who is legally required to put your financial interests ahead of his or her own. Hold a Cash Reserve. If you’re approaching retirement and worried about a significant market correction, there’s another strategy that might provide some peace of mind: Keep up to two years of basic living expenses in cash to cover, say, the costs of housing, food and other essentials. With that sort of buffer, you can try to avoid tapping your investment portfolio for a while, giving it some time to recover. Putting too much money in cash, however, may weaken overall returns because you will have less invested to begin with, and therefore less to build on.Look for Higher Returns. This does not involve chasing after some hot stock or growing sector. It’s far more boring and counterintuitive, but guaranteed to deliver a higher paycheck in retirement over the long run: delay Social Security as long as you reasonably can. “The effective return of delaying Social Security is much higher than what you will earn in the market today,” said David Blanchett, head of retirement research for Morningstar. “It is like a 10 percent guaranteed return.”Your benefits generally rise by 8 percent for each year you wait to collect the check beyond your “full retirement age” — that is, the age you’re eligible for a full benefit, which is currently 66 years and 2 months for people born in 1955. Someone set to receive a full benefit of $1,413 monthly (the average benefit amount), who instead waited two more years, would receive roughly $1,640 — an amount that would rise with inflation.You can think of the money you don’t receive while you delay benefits as a payment for higher guaranteed income later on. And that payment buys you far more in annuity income than if you tried to buy it from a commercial insurer. Get Help. If you doubt you have the strength to avoid temptation and stay the course — or you want assistance developing a coping strategy — this is the time to seek professional help. It can potentially make or break your retirement.But you need to get the right type of help, which means avoiding salespeople and brokers who call themselves advisers but get paid only when they sell you something. Instead, find a certified financial planner who isn’t afraid to promise in writing that he or she will act as a fiduciary, which is legal speak for putting your interests ahead of their own.Good Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Were investors right to be worried?Last year, the U.S. economy seemed solid. Skittishness in the stock and bond markets appeared at odds with signs of stability on the ground. But this week’s flow of distressing news, showing ever more evidence of slowing growth, suggests that the markets had cause for concern:• Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years, citing weak iPhone sales in China.• Delta Air Lines said its fare revenue, although growing, would fall short of the company’s earlier forecast.• The American manufacturing sector slowed sharply last month, according to a closely watched index released yesterday.And things could get worse, especially amid trade tensions with China, as companies line up to report fourth-quarter results in the next few weeks. Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told CNN on yesterday:“There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China.”More on markets: Forty-six percent of American companies issuing estimates for the fourth-quarter have revised their outlook lower, the most since President Trump’s inauguration. Traders are placing bets on whether the Fed will be forced to change course by a slowing economy and swooning stock market. Investors have piled into money market funds as a shelter from market turmoil. China will keep trying to attract bond investors, and a fresh campaign to promote its currency is expected. If all this news makes you want to flee, that’s understandable. It’s also a bad idea.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Coming up: The jobs report and public remarks from the Fed chairmanThe Labor Department will release its official hiring and unemployment figures for December at 8:30 a.m.What to expect: Economists anticipate a gain of about 180,000 jobs, a rise from 155,000 reported in November. Average hourly earnings are expected to tick up 0.3 percent in December from November and 3 percent from a year earlier. The unemployment rate is forecast to fall to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent.What that means for the economy: Economists believe that fears of an imminent recession are overblown. The unemployment rate is near a 50-year low. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook.The Fed’s outlook: An indication of the Fed’s views on rates could come this morning at 10:30, when the central bank chairman, Jerome H. Powell, is scheduled to answer questions at a panel discussion in Atlanta with his two immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke.Consumers’ reticence in China could risk a global domino effectThe world economy has relied for years on the shopping stamina of Chinese consumers. But that spending engine seems to be sputtering.Apple’s surprise announcement this week was just one indicator that Chinese shoppers are pulling back. Amid a tense trade war with the United States, a shaky job market and efforts by Beijing to rein in what one analyst called a decade-long “debt-fueled binge,” Chinese consumers are feeling less than confident. Property sales are down, as are auto and retail sales.The NYT’s Alexandra Stevenson, Li Yuan and Raymond Zhong write:“A significant pullback could have a big impact on a world looking for engines of growth, on companies that counted on China’s continuing expansion and on global investors who have long viewed Chinese consumers as a steady source of profits.”The Chinese premier, Li Keqiang, met today with the three largest commercial banks in the country and pushed for policies to help bolster the economy, including lower taxes and fees and more financing for small and private companies. Today, China’s central bank said that, by Jan. 25, it will scale back the amount of cash it requires lenders to hold in reserve by one percentage point.As for Apple …The tech giant’s problems are not limited to nervous Chinese consumers, according to the WSJ. Competitors in China, such as Huawei, are moving in on Apple’s smartphone market share. In India, a growth market, Apple is a minor player. Customers in the U.S. are keeping their phones longer.Tom Warren at The Verge had this take:“People are upgrading less, carrier subsidies aren’t enough, and $1,000 phones are making consumers pause and consider. Mix that in with fears of a recession, and 2019 could be challenging for Apple and many others.”The company may pull iPhones from its German stores after Qualcomm took steps yesterday to enforce a court order last month banning the sale of certain versions of the device. The order stems from a ruling that Apple infringed on the chip-maker’s patents involving power-saving technology.Apple’s woes were keenly felt yesterday by its third-largest shareholder, Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. Tumbling prices for Apple and airline stocks caused more than $4 billion in value to evaporate from Mr. Buffett’s stakes in the companies, according to the FT.Big deal in pharmaceuticals: Bristol-Myers Squibb to buy CelgeneThe companies, both top sellers of cancer drugs with Bristol-Myers’s Opdivo and Celgene’s Revlimid, agreed to a cash-and-stock deal valued at roughly $74 billion. It was one of the largest takeovers in the industry’s history.• The deal values Celgene shares at $102.43 apiece, or a nearly 54 percent premium on the stock’s closing price on Wednesday.• The combined entity will produce nine drugs with annual sales of more than $1 billion each.• The WSJ points out some concerns with the acquisition: Bristol-Myers could take on more than $50 billion in debt. It will have to help Celgene, whose stock slumped nearly 40 percent last year, diversify its pipeline beyond Revlimid.Blame the quants? AQR founder says that’s ‘insane’A number of fund managers say that traders who use quantitative strategies to exploit market signals have made markets more chaotic and unpredictable. But Clifford Asness, the founder of AQR, one of the world’s biggest hedge fund groups, told the FT that investors who blame the recent market turmoil on quant strategies are “insane.”AQR suffered some of the worst losses in its 20-year history in 2018, and Mr. Asness said that critics were only trying to find excuses for their own poor performance. He pointed out that markets had always suffered bouts of turbulence even before quant strategies were introduced, and said there was little hard evidence that they were feeding volatility.Revolving doorSquare hired Amrita Ahuja from Blizzard Entertainment to be its new CFO, replacing Sarah Friar. (CNBC)Mark Reuss, who joined General Motors in 1983 as an intern, was appointed president of the automaker. He will succeed Dan Amman after being tapped to lead the company’s global product group and Cadillac last the summer. (CNET)The speed readDeals• As part of a move into the fast-growing jet rental business, the private equity firm KKR said it would invest $1 billion into a commercial aircraft venture with Altavair, an aircraft lessor and financier that manages more than 200 jets for investors. (WSJ)• Alphabet’s life sciences research unit, Verily, raised $1 billion in an investment round led by the private equity firm Silver Lake. (CNBC)• The N.F.L., once an adamant opponent of gambling, is making Caesars Entertainment its first official casino sponsor. The multiyear deal excludes sports betting and fantasy football. (AP)Politics & Policy• The newly Democratic-controlled House passed a plan to reopen the government. But the shutdown isn’t over. The Senate may not even vote on it. (NYT)• The shutdown, which affects the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause delays in anticipated I.P.O.s from Uber, Lyft and others. (WaPo)• The congressional freshman class of 2019 includes the most female and racially diverse group of representatives ever elected to the House. (NYT)• Democrats wary of a debt-ceiling drama involving President Trump are leaning on an arcane measure called the Gephardt Rule to shield markets from threats of default. (MarketWatch)• The national debt has increased by more than $2 trillion during President Trump’s time in office, reaching $21.974 trillion at the end of last year. (CNN)Trade• Chinese and U.S. officials will meet in Beijing early next week to discuss trade, with a focus on intellectual property protections and Chinese industrial policy. (FT)Tech• Huawei punished two employees after an iPhone, a competitor of the company’s P-series handsets, was used to send out New Year’s greetings on Huawei’s official Twitter account. (Reuters)The best of the rest • Carlos Ghosn, the fallen Nissan Motor chairman accused of financial misconduct, will appear in court in Tokyo on Tuesday in his first public appearance since his arrest in November (NYT)• As more consumers buy video games digitally, sales have been flat for the retailer GameStop while its stock price has sunk, prompting some to suggest that the company might be better off selling itself. (WSJ)• U.S. automakers sold 17.3 million new cars and light trucks last year, an increase of 0.6 percent from 2017. But the upswing was driven by sales to fleets, while sales to individual consumers were flat. (NYT)• Wagering on higher inflation was a bad bet last year. (WSJ)• U.S. authorities charged three former Credit Suisse bankers in connection with a $2 billion fraud scheme that also involved the former finance minister of Mozambique. (WSJ)• Herb Kelleher, a co-founder and former chief executive of Southwest Airlines who turned the carrier into one of the nation’s most successful and admired companies, died yesterday at age 87. (NYT)• Daniel Loeb, the activist hedge fund manager, is another all-star investor who struggled in 2018. His firm, Third Point, lost about 6 percent in December, bringing its total loss for the year to about 11 percent. (CNBC)• Property markets in Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore show signs of softening, an indication that Asia is succumbing to the global property slowdown. (Bloomberg)• The yield on the two-year Treasury note dropped below 2.4 percent, reaching parity with the federal funds effective rate for the first time since 2008. (Reuters)• Retail vacancies in the U.S. inched higher in the fourth quarter, underscoring that the sector has withstood store closings across the country, according to a new report. Many feared that vacancy rates would soar and rents would plummet. (Reuters)• The yield on Japanese sovereign bonds fell to its lowest level in more than two years after concerns about the Chinese economy and global growth trends sparked a sell-off of equities in Tokyo. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Vini Letteri, a managing director at KKR who invests in tech companies, had a slow 2018.Mr. Letteri, a venture capitalist who manages a $714 million fund, tried to put some of that money into 12 tech start-ups last year — but failed when they demanded too rich a price. In some cases, he said, his offers to invest were outbid by as much as 40 percent. The only investment he led in 2018 was a $360 million deal in OutSystems, a software company in Atlanta.So here’s what Mr. Letteri is not-so-secretly hoping for in 2019: a downturn in the private start-up market.“When the market turns, we’re prepared to be more aggressive,” he said. He added that he had sketched out a “downturn list” of 150 targets — including financial tech, cybersecurity, and consumer internet companies — in case they become cheaper.Mr. Letteri is one of a growing number of venture capitalists rooting for a market dip to calm the overheated start-up scene. For the past few years, Silicon Valley tech start-ups have been awash in a stream of cash that has allowed them to expand quickly and sell or go public at high valuations. Yet that drove up the costs of deal making for venture capitalists, who often prefer to invest in young companies at lower prices in the hopes of making a bigger return later.Now some of these investors may get their wish for a market decline. Stocks tumbled late last year, led by tech giants such as Facebook and Apple, amid fears of slowing economic growth and a trade war with China. And so far this year, the stock market has swung wildly, whipsawed by confusing signals including Apple’s disappointing iPhone sales in China and American employers adding more jobs than expected last month.While it takes time for choppiness in the stock market to ripple out into the start-up market, many venture investors are already preparing for a downturn. Some are setting aside money to pounce on investments and are preparing to write bigger checks with the expectation that new investors who flooded in in recent years will flee. And they are keeping closer tabs on companies that were too expensive to invest in last year.“We definitely want to take advantage of a market downturn,” said Sandy Miller, a venture capitalist at IVP who projects that start-up valuations will fall by 10 percent to 40 percent this year. He said his Silicon Valley venture firm has set aside “meaningful reserves” to do more deals and to put more money into companies it has already invested in, though he declined to specify an amount.Silicon Valley investors have long complained that start-up valuations have gotten too expensive, given that the start-up ecosystem has been on a bull run since at least 2015. That has minted an unprecedented number of “unicorn” start-ups, which are valued at more than $1 billion, including now-giant companies such as Uber and Airbnb.But the rising valuations have only continued to climb in the last year. In 2018, the median company valuation for one category of mature start-ups more than doubled to $420 million, up from $183 million in 2017, according to Carta, a provider of valuation software and services. And in a 2017 National Bureau of Economic Research study of 135 unicorn start-ups, researchers concluded the companies were overvalued by an average of 50 percent.“There’s too much heat around good, not necessarily great, companies” that are older, said Mamoon Hamid, a partner at the venture firm Kleiner Perkins. Even one “good, not great” company he recently met with had 13 investment offers, he said. The upshot: Kleiner did not invest.Greg Sands, a managing partner at Costanoa Ventures, said his venture firm walked away from three investments in 2018 where the price was 30 percent higher than he was willing to pay, an increase from past years. He also screened out numerous companies that were asking for more money than seemed reasonable — yet some of those companies then went on to raise triple that amount from other investors.“What’s happening right now isn’t sustainable and it won’t go on forever. It can’t,” he said. Costanoa raised a $75 million “opportunity fund,”, which Mr. Sands said would give it the ability to do more deals when the market cools down.Many other venture capital firms are also in a position to become more aggressive in case of a market downturn. Venture funds raised $30.2 billion in the first three quarters of last year, on track to surpass 2017’s total of $35.3 billion, according to PitchBook, a data provider.Start-up founders also appear to be preparing for a potential shift in fortunes. In a survey conducted late last year by First Round Capital, a venture capital firm, just under half of 529 entrepreneurs said they expected fund-raising to become more difficult in 2019. A third said they believed the tech bubble was close to popping, a 10-point increase over 2017.Some start-ups are raising more money to weather the uncertainty, according to Kirsten Green, a managing partner at Forerunner Ventures. Others are creating backup plans to cut costs so their survival won’t depend on new funding.Not all venture capitalists want a downturn, especially if it will throw a wrench into the plans of some of the biggest unicorns — such as Uber, Lyft, Pinterest and Slack — to go public. Many investors are eager to cash out of those companies when they stage an initial public offering.“You always want a better market,” said Micah Rosenbloom, a managing partner at Founder Collective, which was an early investor in Uber. “In a crisis, everything gets hard. You’d rather have your companies in good times for everything from hiring to sales.”Still, Mr. Rosenbloom said he also saw opportunity in a downturn. His firm’s two most successful investments — Uber and the Trade Desk, a digital advertising company — were created in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.In previous downturns, the less serious entrepreneurs disappeared, leaving the most committed ones, said David Pakman, a partner at venture firm Venrock. “During those periods, some incredible companies were founded by highly determined entrepreneurs,” he said. “The cream rose to the top.”Stocks surged on Friday after the Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said the central bank’s approach to monetary policy would remain flexible in the face of market turbulence and signs that the global economy is slowing.The S&P 500 rose 3.4 percent, while the Nasdaq composite ended up 4.3 percent. Stocks were already higher before Mr. Powell’s comments, rising off Labor Department figures that showed robust gains in hiring, but the rally picked up speed after he spoke Friday morning.The Fed’s plans for future interest rate increases have become a concern for investors as stocks have stumbled in recent months. Markets slumped last month after the central bank raised rates and policymakers suggested it would continue on a course of tightening its monetary policy. Mr. Powell, acknowledging the market’s concerns that rising interest rates would dampen the economy, said the central bank could adjust its plans if conditions warrant.[Read more about Mr. Powell’s comments.]Stock investors have been looking for fresh evidence about the state of the economy, and on Friday they got a sign that it remains in good health. Employers in the United States added 312,000 jobs last month, well above Wall Street’s expectations and the biggest monthly gain since February.The faint prospect that China and the United States were inching toward a resolution of their trade war also helped lift markets. China’s Commerce Ministry said on Friday that Jeffrey Gerrish, the deputy United States trade representative, would lead a delegation to Beijing for trade talks next week.One of the biggest concerns for investors is how much the trade dispute between China and the United States will dent global growth. The meeting next week would be the first between the two sides since President Trump and President Xi Jinping called a 90-day truce in December.China also took steps to bolster its economy on Friday. The People’s Bank of China said it would cut the amount of cash that banks have to hold as reserves against bad times, essentially freeing up about $218 billion.[U.S. employers added 312,000 jobs last month, capping a year of robust hiring.]Reflecting Friday’s optimistic tone, crude oil prices also rose. The American benchmark for oil prices climbed above $48 a barrel.And shares in Europe and parts of Asia were higher. One notable exception among global markets was Japan, where shares fell in the first trading day of the new year.The wealth management units of several global banks began circulating notes encouraging clients not to panic and highlighting “silver linings” and buying opportunities amid a rout that dragged markets around the world into negative territory last year.“There are plenty of looming concerns for investors, from the U.S. government shutdown and vexed trade talks with China, to the potential impact on consumer and business confidence from the recent market volatility,” analysts at the Swiss bank UBS wrote in a note.“However,” the note continued, “we think markets can rebound and hold an overweight to global stocks.”[Read more about all the economic concerns that sent stocks tumbling on Thursday.]In Europe, London’s FTSE 100 gained 2.2 percent. The CAC 40 in France gained 2.7 percent, and the Dax in Germany was 3.4 percent higher.In Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 2.2 percent on Friday. In China, the Shanghai Composite Index gained 2.1 percent. The Shenzhen Composite Index closed 2.7 percent higher.South Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.8 percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225 fell 2.3 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index fell 1.2 percent.Good Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Apple cuts its forecast, blaming a slowdown in ChinaEvidence continues to mount that China’s economy is slowing faster than expected.The latest data point comes courtesy of Apple. A significant slowdown in iPhone sales in China forced the company to reduce revenue expectations for its most recent quarter. The company said yesterday that it expected revenue of about $84 billion in the quarter that ended Dec. 29, down from a previous estimate of $89 billion to $93 billion.It was the first time Apple had lowered its quarterly forecast in 16 years. The NYT’s Jack Nicas and Keith Bradsher write:“Apple’s surprise announcement added to concerns about the ability of American tech giants to navigate an increasingly uncertain economy and a continuing trade war between the United States and China. China has become Apple’s third-largest market in recent years, driven mostly by iPhone sales.”Apple’s announcement is the latest warning from corporate America about the impact of the trade war, which may be harder to defend now that the collateral damage includes one of the country’s most recognizable brands. Companies like FedEx and Starbucks are already struggling in China. And other American businesses, especially tech players and Detroit automakers, could suffer as well.More: The optimistic narrative about Apple’s iPhone business is falling apart, writes Bloomberg Opinion’s Shira Ovide.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Markets prepare for a drop as the bears re-emergeApple’s announcement added to investors’ concerns about slowing global growth and reawakened the stock market’s bears. The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq futures tumbled more than 1 percent overnight.Shares of Apple dropped more than 9 percent in after-hours trading, a loss that was reflected in a wider range of companies. Chip makers like Advanced Micro Devices, Nvidia, Skyworks and Qorvo were among the hardest hit, down more than 3 percent. The electronics retailer Best Buy slipped 2 percent, and companies with big business in China such as Boeing and Caterpillar fell 2 percent.Markets across Asia fell today, as investors shed technology stocks. European markets opened lower as well.Tesla has a record quarter, but price cuts prompt a sell-offApple wasn’t the only company to spook investors yesterday, as Tesla broke records in its fourth quarter but failed to impress the market.Good numbers, but not good enough: The automaker said it delivered 90,700 vehicles in the period, surpassing its earlier high. Of those, 63,150 were Model 3 sedans, a 13 percent improvement on the prior three-month span, but nonetheless below Wall Street’s expectations. The growth rate for the Model 3, Tesla’s first mass-market offering, fell short compared with the third quarter, when sales more than doubled amid a rush of initial orders.Demand concerns: Investors were especially perturbed by Tesla’s announcement that it was cutting prices of all models in the U.S. by $2,000 per car. The automaker said it was adjusting to a Jan. 1 reduction of a federal electric-vehicle tax credit for Tesla buyers to $3,750 from $7,500. But what the market saw was a warning that, after a surge of early interest in the Model 3, buyers may be waiting for a more affordable option, writes Bloomberg Opinion’s Liam Denning:“This suggests that the vast majority of reservation holders are either waiting overseas, where Tesla says deliveries should start next month, or (and this is probably the bigger group) are waiting for cheaper variants such as the long-promised $35,000 version. That latter group poses a potential threat to Tesla’s profit margins in the quarters ahead, especially as Model 3 production remains below previous targets.”Tesla shares ended trading nearly 7 percent lower.Censorship in China becomes a growing businessThousands of low-wage workers in China are trawling the internet in search of forbidden content in a lucrative new industry: censorship factories.Playing it safe: For Chinese companies, staying on the safe side of government censors is a matter of life and death. Adding to the burden, the authorities demand that companies censor themselves, spurring them to hire thousands of people to police content. “It helps cleanse the online environment,” one worker said.Little tolerance: China has built the world’s most extensive and sophisticated online censorship system. It grew even stronger under President Xi Jinping, who wants the internet to play a greater role in strengthening the Communist Party’s hold on society. More content is considered sensitive. Punishments are getting more severe.Rising influence: China’s vision of a government-supervised internet reverberates in other countries. Even in Western Europe and the United States, traditional bastions of free expression, companies are examining their digital limits. Platforms like Facebook and YouTube have said that they would hire thousands more workers to better monitor their content.China’s ‘new chapter’ in lunar explorationChina may have missed the starting gun in the international space race, but said today that it was the first to land a lunar probe on the far side of the moon.The Chang’e-4 vehicle, named after the lunar goddess in Chinese mythology, landed in the moon’s oldest and deepest crater and sent back the first close-up images of a region that perpetually faces away from earth.The China National Space Administration, which hopes to put astronauts in a lunar base by the end of the next decade, called the feat “a new chapter in humanity’s exploration of the moon.” The mission could help advance understanding of the moon’s origins and evolution, and better position China to tap minerals and other resources discovered there.China landed a rover on the moon in 2013, decades after a Soviet Union spacecraft reached the surface in 1959 and the United States successfully sent its Apollo 11 team in 1969. China’s future plans in space involve sending astronauts to Mars and a probe to Jupiter, according to the WSJ.The evolution of human welfare“The world got better last year, and it is going to get even better this year,” Greg Ip writes in the WSJ. Problems like illiteracy, poverty and violent deaths have been dropping worldwide, Ip writes, but the news has received little attention because the decline has been slow and steady.The gradual progress is coming about through basic rules of growth:“Invest more in your human and physical capital, open yourself to markets and trade — that’s right, globalization is good — and incomes will rise.”This has lead to momentous change: Half the world is now middle class.Revolving doorHalliburton named Jeff Miller its chairman after David Lesar retired on Monday following a 25-year career with the company. Mr. Miller became chief executive of the oil field services giant in 2017, taking over from Mr. Lesar, who had succeeded Dick Cheney in 2000. (Bloomberg)The speed readDeals• China Tobacco International, a subsidiary of the state-owned company that sells 98 percent of all tobacco products in China, has filed for an initial public offering in Hong Kong. (Reuters)• Apollo Global Management is said to be in talks to buy the industrial parts maker Arconic, which sold combustible material used at the site of the deadly Grenfell Tower fire in Britain in 2017, for about $22 a share. A deal could be reached by the middle of this month. (Bloomberg)• Qatar Airways made its first major investment in mainland China, buying 5 percent of China Southern Airlines, the country’s largest carrier. (CNN)• Loosened regulations led to 162 U.S. television stations changing hands last year, up from 104 the prior year. The $8.4 billion in deals stemmed from local stations’ advertising woes and pressure from increasingly powerful broadcast networks. (FT)Politics and policy• The partial government shutdown continues after President Trump rejected Democrats’ proposals to restart operations during negotiations and pushed for a border wall during a contentious White House meeting. (NYT)• Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, is poised to become House speaker again, solidifying her status as the highest-ranking and most powerful elected woman in U.S. history. (NYT)• Complaints of sexual harassment and pay disparity by former staff members for Bernie Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign have circulated in recent weeks, and the Vermont senator’s perceived failure to address this issue could potentially hinder a second run at the White House. (NYT)• Senator-elect Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, declined to endorse President Trump’s re-election, saying that the president “has not risen to the mantle of the office.” His comments touched off a series of counterattacks from Mr. Trump’s allies. (NYT)• FedEx said it would abandon its plan to begin cargo flights to Cuba, ending more than two years of effort to start the service after relations between the island nation and the U.S. chilled under the Trump administration. (Bloomberg)Tech• Roku will allow users to buy pay-TV subscriptions through its streaming service starting late this month, much like Amazon and its Prime Video platform. The feature will include channels such as Showtime, Starz and Epix. (WSJ)• After steep declines in the price of bitcoin and other digital assets, fund managers focused on cryptocurrencies are asking skittish investors to stay the course. (FT)• Robot workers replacing humans? Not quite, says the World Bank, which reports that the rise of automation has barely affected global employment so far. (Bloomberg)• The Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba and the Belgian government formed a partnership to create a trade hub to help small and medium-size companies in the country sell products abroad. (CNBC)Best of the rest • Amid a glut of luxury properties and concerns about the economy, the median price of an apartment in Manhattan fell 5.8 percent at the end of 2018 to $999,000 — the first time in three years it was below $1 million. (FT)• Temporary administrators appointed by the European Central Bank will oversee the Italian lender Banca Carige after most of its board members resigned following a fraud scandal and disagreement over a turnaround plan. (FT)• Blake W. Nordstrom, co-president of his family’s namesake retailer who helped lead the company through one of the industry’s most tumultuous periods, died yesterday in Seattle at age 58. (Seattle Times)• In a “flash crash,” the Australian dollar and other major currencies collapsed against the safe-haven yen in a matter of seconds. (Reuters)• Investors expect interest rates will end 2019 no higher than where they started. (WSJ)• Current worldwide debt: nearly $250 trillion, or three times the amount two decades ago. The U.S., China, the eurozone and Japan are the biggest borrowers. (WSJ)• A data analysis of about 16,000 shale wells operated by 29 of the biggest producers in Texas and North Dakota reveals that many are yielding less than their owners projected to investors. Such projections can create an “illusory picture.” (WSJ)• Uncertainty over Britain’s exit from the European Union and rising cost pressure have the British economy in a “weak holding pattern,” the British Chambers of Commerce said. (FT)• An economic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, exacerbated by financial sanctions, pushed the country’s oil exports to a 28-year low. (Bloomberg)• The popularity of meat alternatives has caught the attention of McDonald’s, the leading fast food company, and an increasing number of food and agricultural companies have been investing in alternative protein start-ups. (FT)• As consumers swap meat for leafy greens, Nestle is preparing for its biggest push yet into the booming vegan market, hoping to turn the trend in plant-based eating into a billion-dollar business. (Bloomberg)• As global economic growth wanes and investors shift toward the view that further increases of interest rates by the Fed would be a mistake, there is little on the horizon to reverse the slide in Treasury yields. (Bloomberg)• Morgan Stanley is the world’s top stock underwriter again. Its secret: Dealmakers who helped start-ups tap a spigot of private money. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Stocks have staged a remarkable turnaround in the early days of 2019, rebounding after an end-of-the-year tailspin that was fomented by fears of recession in the United States.Three straight weeks of gains in the new year on Wall Street have erased nearly all of 2018’s losses. It’s the best start to a year since 1987.Even so, many factors behind last year’s troubling decline remain unresolved. American companies and consumers are less optimistic about the future, and large economies like Germany and China are signaling a global slowdown driven by the trade war. Britain is in turmoil over leaving the European Union. And a new concern, the longest federal government shutdown in history, also poses a risk to the domestic economy.A month ago, any one of those elements might have fueled a steep decline in stocks. In December, waves of panic-driven selling left the S&P 500 dangling almost 20 percent below its high. Now, it’s all being taken in stride.The difference is an abrupt change in tone from the Federal Reserve. This year began with repeated public assurances from Fed officials that they were sensitive to concerns about the economy and would be patient and flexible as they decided whether to raise interest rates.Investors were alarmed last year by the idea that the central bank was determined to keep raising rates, risking a recession. It wasn’t just Wall Street that worried. As stocks were sliding in December, President Trump, who boasted about stocks as they rose earlier in the year, became fixated on the Fed and its chairman, Jerome H. Powell. “The only problem our economy has is the Fed,” he wrote on Twitter on Dec. 24.“They’re trying their best to be a source of stability in markets,” said Samantha Azzarello, global market strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management. “What happened last year really shook people and their confidence in investing in equities.”The Fed has always held sway over the financial markets, but that influence tends to grow in the later stages of an expansion, when every interest rate increase is seen as the one that might trip up the economy.The United States economy is still strong: The unemployment rate is near 50-year lows, wages are starting to rise and growth in corporate profits remains robust. To the Fed, these are reasons to keep raising borrowing costs and stave off potential inflation. It did so four times in 2018.But after 10 years of economic growth, many investors are worried that a turning point is near, and that higher interest rates might bring on a slowdown faster than they expect. And the recent stock market gains may not stick without proof that corporate profits can keep growing.“We’re in a bit of a ‘show me’ moment for skeptical and uncertain investors,” said Kate Moore, chief equity strategist for BlackRock, the world’s largest investment firm. “It’s going to have to be backed up with earnings and the confidence that those earnings are going to be sustainable.”This past week, American companies began disclosing their sales and profits for the fourth quarter. With about 10 percent of companies in the S&P 500 posting results, the reports have been strong.After the S&P 500 rose 2.9 percent in the week through Friday, it is up 13.6 percent from its Dec. 24 low. The stock index ended trading on Friday just below its 2018 starting point.However, earnings reports reflect only what happened in the past. When it comes to how they will do in 2019, some large businesses have cautioned that they don’t have a clear view.Ford recently warned that the trade war and Britain’s impending exit from the European Union made it impossible to offer investors a forecast. The homebuilder Lennar did the same, blaming weakness and uncertainty in the housing market.Broad surveys of sentiment also suggest reason for worry. On Friday, the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to the lowest point of the Trump presidency and well below forecasters’ expectations. Earlier in the week, a report from the Fed showed that, through early January, executives and economists had become less optimistic for a host of reasons, including trade and political uncertainty and swings in the financial markets.The data in that report came before the government shutdown had stretched to nearly a month. Now the longest in United States history, the closing will start to take a toll. The latest estimates from the White House’s own Council of Economic Advisers suggest that the shutdown has already knocked almost half a percentage point off the economy’s growth rate, though that drag should end once the government reopens.The shutdown is affecting some large businesses already. On Tuesday, Delta Air Lines cautioned that reduced travel by government officials and contractors would hurt its sales growth, at a rate of about $25 million a month. JPMorgan Chase executives noted that if the Securities and Exchange Commission — currently closed except for emergency matters — was not able to give approvals for stock market share offerings, and mergers went unapproved by other government agencies, it could cut fee revenue for its investment banking operations.Profits at American companies may be hurt by the United States’ trade war with China. Evidence that it is slowing global growth mounted this past week, with Germany reporting its slowest annual growth rate since 2013 and China saying that exports fell last month.Companies in the S&P 500 generate 37 percent of their sales, on average, from markets outside the United States, according to the data provider FactSet, and businesses that have increased their exposure to global economies now look vulnerable.But for the most part, stock investors have shrugged off these concerns in January, now that they see the Fed as less eager to raise rates.The Fed had spooked investors as recently as Dec. 19, when it raised interest rates, and its chairman, Mr. Powell, said he didn’t see a need for the central bank to change the way it has been slowly selling off the bonds it bought to bolster the economy over the last decade. The stock market slid 6 percent in the days afterward.“Clearly the market was skittish about, primarily, the Fed,” said Alicia Levine, chief strategist at BNY Mellon Investment Management. “It sounded like the Fed was on autopilot.”By Jan. 4, Mr. Powell’s comments had a different tone. Speaking at a public panel discussion, he made a point of emphasizing the Fed’s ability to be patient with further interest rate increases, given that inflation remains low.“We’re listening with, you know, sensitively to the message that — that markets are sending,” Mr. Powell said. “And we’re going to be taking those downside risks into account as we make policy going forward.”Within days, other central bank officials repeated the sentiment, and the Fed published the details of its December meeting, which showed that many of its policymakers had already reached that conclusion. Stocks had already bounced off their Christmas Eve low when Mr. Powell spoke, but have gained 9.1 percent since.“Their commentary has really done a 180 in a really short period of time,” said David Giroux, chief investment officer of United States equity at asset manager T. Rowe Price.Over the last 30 years, investors have grown accustomed to looking to the Fed for help when the market found itself in a sticky spot. Some trace the phenomenon to the October 1987 market crash. The morning after stocks tumbled roughly 20 percent in a single day, the Fed, under the recently appointed Alan Greenspan, issued a statement indicating that it was ready to support the economic and financial system.Stocks rebounded sharply, helping to embed an expectation into the markets that continues today. And, in the past decade, as stocks have climbed in their longest run of gains ever, the Fed’s decisions to back away from plans to raise interest rates or withdraw economic stimulus have helped keep the bull market alive.Mr. Powell and the Fed seem to have done that again.“I think his comments on Jan. 4 were critical to getting excitement and willingness to invest back into the market,” Ms. Levine said.Stocks came very close to entering a bear market on Christmas Eve, which was a very bad thing. Just about everybody said so.Yet the bear-market label is based on a dangerously unscientific understanding of stock markets. It is dangerous because the designation itself can set off a negative popular narrative that may, in itself, help to fuel a bigger market decline.What happened in December? By Dec. 24, the S&P 500 had fallen 19.8 percent from its peak of September 2018.That was just short of the “traditional” 20 percent slide that many say defines a bear market. It has been strongly up since then, but still remains down substantially from that peak.This tradition doesn’t amount to much, though. I discovered, through digital search, that the practice of using precise definitions for down markets — denoting a “correction” as a 10 percent decline from a peak and a “bear market” as a 20 percent decline — is only a little over 30 years old. It dates back to the mid-1980s.People have spoken loosely of bear markets for more than a hundred years, but they didn’t generally attach a 20 percent definition to them.You might think that the precise identification of a bear market occurred because that 20 percent threshold is intrinsically important — because, for example, there are many times when stock market declines stop at around 20 percent.But, actually, that is not a frequent occurrence. In this century, since 2000, there have been exactly two S&P 500 declines of 20 percent from the market peak — and both of them continued much further, for a net decline of around 50 percent.The first such decline started in 2000. The S&P 500 peaked on March 24 of that year but by March 12, 2001, it had declined 20 percent, and newspapers duly called the situation a bear market.Sometimes the wording suggested that the market was nearing its bottom. Writers didn’t know the decline was over, but evidently felt comfortable joking about it: “Bear Country Good Territory for Stock Hunting,” one headline said.That lighthearted approach was unfortunate because the S&P 500 turned out to be less than halfway through its decline. Ultimately, from its 2000 peak it dropped 49.1 percent through Oct. 9, 2002, before turning up. In real terms, correcting for inflation, that was more than a 50 percent price drop from peak to trough.Then there was the stock market of the Great Recession. The S&P 500 peaked on Oct. 9, 2007. It became a bear market, having declined over 20 percent, on July 11, 2008.There were lots of bear jokes that July, with suggestions that the start of a bear market signaled the end of a process: “Stop Worrying and Learn to Love the Bear,” was the headline of a Wall Street Journal article then. Still, the market kept going down, and bottomed on March 9, 2009, after losing 56.7 percent of its peak value.Those two episodes tell us something important: The start of a bear market doesn’t mean much. From a historical perspective, it is clear that a 20 percent decline does not predict further market movements with any certainty.That may not have been obvious between 1980 and 1990, when the 20 percent definition of a bear market first became established, because there were then two fairly recent 20 percent declines from S&P 500 peaks that did not precede sharper falls.On March 3, 1982, after dropping 21.1 percent from a Nov. 28, 1980, peak and entering what we would now call bear market territory, the S&P 500 fell only 6 percent further. And after a one-day S&P 500 decline of 20.5 percent on Oct. 19, 1987, the index fell only 0.4 percent further to a trough on Dec. 4, 1987.In short, the mere diagnosis of a bear market doesn’t seem to carry much weight for forecasting future price drops.Yet let’s not dismiss the effects of a bear market declaration too soon. Simply by announcing that we have entered a bear market and repeating that claim in the echo chamber of social media, the designation itself might create psychological unease that could make for market volatility.Popular labels carry emotional content. If the declarations of bear markets are charged with negativity, bull markets are fraught with symbolic and patriotic feelings.Consider the “Charging Bull” sculpture, symbolizing the bull market vigor of the financial markets, by Arturo Di Modica. It was first installed in 1989 in the aftermath of the 1987 stock market crash, in Bowling Green in the financial district of New York.The initial installation of the bull statue caught the popular imagination. It was the second time, according to Google Ngrams, that “bull” and “bear” were really widely used (the first time being in the boom of the 1920s and the 1929 crash).The statue may be the second most famous sculpture in New York, after the Statue of Liberty, and tourists flock to take selfies with it. It is a symbol of much more than a market direction. According to the sculptor, the statue also symbolizes  “the strength and power of the American people.” It has become an icon of national identity, patriotism and animal spirits.By the same token, the notion that a bear market may be around the corner can be profoundly disruptive. The near-miss diagnosis of a “bear market” on Christmas Eve 2018 seemed to have struck fear and disorientation in many investors, like an inconclusive lab test for a dread disease, making people vulnerable to more pessimistic feelings.Of course, some people may have interpreted the near miss as a clean bill of health, perhaps even a buying opportunity, depending on circumstances and on the narratives they choose to believe.Narratives matter in the stock market, which is, in many ways, a social-psychological barometer. Whether people are exulting about a bull market or running from a bear, volatile emotions are involved. In the next round in the stock market, we will see who outnumbers whom.For mutual-fund investors, the fourth quarter of 2018 was a hailstorm — a stinging deluge in which nearly every sort of investment seemed to get plunked.Yet several top-performing funds managed to find refuge in far-flung corners of the market, like Latin American companies, real estate investment trusts and dividend-paying stocks.T. Rowe Price Latin America Verena E. Wachnitz, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Latin America Fund, was spared the fourth quarter’s party of pain because of where she invests: Latin America was one of the few major markets that rose late last year.Brazil accounted for much of that gain. It endured a severe recession in 2015 and 2016 and anemic growth in 2017. But a stronger recovery began last year, and the Brazilian Bovespa stock index gained 15 percent in 2018.Brazil is Latin America’s biggest economy, and its stocks account for more than 60 percent of the MSCI Emerging Markets Latin America index, so Ms. Wachnitz keeps a big chunk of her shareholders’ money there.“Brazil has a lot of high-quality companies,” she said. “Whatever happens there is key for the region.” Seven of her fund’s top 10 holdings are Brazilian, including two banks, Itaú Unibanco and Banco Bradesco, and an apparel retailer, Lojas Renner.The banks, two of Brazil’s heftiest, are profiting as consumers start to borrow and spend more with the recovery, Ms. Wachnitz said.Lojas Renner likewise stands to gain from a surge in consumer spending. “They’re really going into the digital age, and the consumer experience improves every year,” she said. “Now you can check out directly with employees who have hand-held devices.”Ms. Wachnitz has also benefited from where she chose not to invest: She shied from Mexico, because of concerns about how the policies of its new government might affect the profitability of its companies. Mexican shares make up only 14.6 percent of her fund, compared with 21.6 percent of the index. The S&P BMV IPC, a leading Mexico stock index, lost 15.27 percent last quarter.“I’m not that worried about trade and Trump,” she said. “The new trade agreement is moving forward. But policymaking is deteriorating in Mexico, with a more populist, left-wing type of government.”Ms. Wachnitz’s fund, with a net expense ratio of 1.29 percent, returned 6.01 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of 13.52 percent, including dividends, for the S&P 500. The quarter’s punishments weren’t limited to the S&P 500 and Mexico: Nearly every stock-market sector tracked by Morningstar recorded a loss.MFS Diversified IncomeMFS Diversified Income didn’t manage a gain in the fourth quarter: It lost 3.79 percent. But it still outpaced all but a few competitors by spreading its bets around on income-producing securities. The fund, with an expense ratio of 0.99 percent, aims to “out-yield the equity market but outgrow the bond market and hopefully do so with less volatility,” said Robert M. Almeida, its lead portfolio manager. To do this, it owns both stocks and bonds.On the stock side, Mr. Almeida divides his shareholders’ money among real estate investment trusts and dividend payers and, on the bond side, investment-grade, high-yield and emerging-market debt.His starting point is an allocation of 20 percent of the fund’s assets to each of these asset classes — R.E.I.T.s, dividend payers and investment-grade bonds — as well as 25 percent to high-yield bonds and 15 percent to emerging-markets bonds. He then tweaks the precise weight of each by consulting with MFS’s other portfolio managers and its analysts. “In the fourth quarter, we were overweight emerging-market debt and R.E.I.T.s and underweight high-yield debt and global dividend-paying stocks,” he said.Those emerging-markets bonds represent a wager that the finances of some of the developing world’s governments are safer than the markets may appreciate. Mr. Almeida said many investors fixate on the economic trouble spots in the emerging world, like recently Venezuela and Turkey.“What doesn’t get talked about is Chile and Peru, which are fundamentally strong countries. I don’t think of them as high risk. High-yield debt is risk. There, you’re lending to the lower-quality end of the U.S. corporate market, which is going to have to refinance a lot of debt at higher rates over the next two to three years.”Mr. Almeida said his R.E.I.T. bet stemmed partly from a presentation made by Richard R. Gable, portfolio manager of the MFS Global Real Estate Fund. “Rick was saying the R.E.I.T. sector was the cheapest it’d been, relative to financials and the rest of the equity market, in years,” he said.Among R.E.I.T.s, Mr. Almeida said, MFS prefers those “with properties that are really hard to replicate.” His fund’s top real estate holdings include the Simon Property Group, the United States’ largest shopping-mall owner, and AvalonBay Communities, an apartment owner that is strong in coastal urban markets.American Funds College 2024 and College 2027 The American Funds College 2024 Fund and College 2027 Fund also buy both stocks and bonds. The two target-date college funds don’t invest directly in those securities but do so through other funds in the American family, which is managed by the Capital Group. Both college funds, for example, hold shares of the American Mutual Fund and the Bond Fund of America, which have been part of the American lineup for decades.The college funds are investment options in CollegeAmerica, a 529 college-savings plan sponsored by the state of Virginia. (That “529” refers to a provision of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and anyone can invest in the funds, not just Virginians, though the tax benefits may differ for people in other states.) The 2024 fund lost 1.27 percent in the fourth quarter, while the 2027 fund lost 3.26 percent. The 2024 fund has an expense ratio of 0.73 percent, while the 2027 has one of 0.8 percent.Wesley K.-S. Phoa, principal investment officer for American Funds’ target-date college funds series, said the funds’ bond investments didn’t carry excessive credit risk or unexpected correlations with the stock market, while the stock investments emphasized sturdiness, not sizzle. “We’ve picked stock funds that focus on solid blue-chip dividend payers, and that has delivered the resilience we hoped it would,” he said.Mr. Phoa said college funds present an unusual asset-allocation challenge in that investors — often parents — are seeking the savings growth that stocks can bring but they typically have only about 15 years to achieve that. That gives them less time to ride out down markets, like the fourth quarter’s thumping.“Most parents make steady modest contributions, and a lot start when their kids are 6 or 7,” he said. “When you’re putting in modest amounts, you want to get as much growth as you can. So we’re pretty growth oriented for a young beneficiary. But once you get within a couple of years in college enrollment, that’s the last thing you want. So at this stage, we’re invested very conservatively.”For the 2024 fund, whose intended beneficiaries are now 13 to 15 years old, that translates to about 68 percent bonds, 26 percent stocks and 6 percent cash. For the 2027 fund, whose intended beneficiaries are now 10 to 12, that translates to 54 percent bonds, 41 percent stocks and 5 percent cash.Mr. Phoa said he has recently gained a new appreciation of the stresses his clients face, because his own daughter is 16 and thinking about college. “Once you get within a couple of years in college enrollment, the last thing you want to discuss is what’s happening in the 529 account.”After the wrenching swings of late 2018 and early January, it was difficult to harbor many illusions about the stock market. It became clear that investing in stocks wasn’t easy, predictable or safe, at least in the short run. If you weren’t a risk taker or deeply committed for the long term, it was difficult to look at the market closely and remain calm.In fact, the long bull market had a near-death experience in December. Based on intraday trading, stocks descended just below the 20 percent-loss threshold that customarily denotes the birth of a bear market. Counting only prices at the market close, however, the Dow Jones industrial average didn’t quite fall into that dismal territory. Still, despite a market rise in January, losses have been severe, especially in sectors that had been highfliers, like technology. What’s an investor to do? Our quarterly survey contains some lessons and suggestions. After a Market Swoon, Investors Want SafetyRecession fears have emerged despite strong job growth, making some investors wary of stocks and looking for havens. But many strategists urge caution, saying it isn’t wise to pile on risk until the status of the market and the economy are clearer. Read more » Real Estate Funds Have Been a Balm in a Stinging MarketReal estate funds fared reasonably well through much of the autumn downturn. While headline-grabbing sectors like technology plunged, funds that invested in commercial real estate — office buildings, malls and warehouses — were fairly steady. What are their prospects in a really rocky market?Read more » For a While, Bond Funds Were an Exception to the Indexing RuleBonds are often a source of solace during stock downturns, and active bond funds have done relatively well compared with index funds. Active bond funds were actually beating index funds in 2018 until December, but then they fell behind. The problem is that index funds tend to be cheap and difficult to beat consistently. In the longer term, it’s hard to make a strong case for the human touch.Read more » I’ll Do Evil and I’ll Get Rich. You Can Have a Share.Social media companies have made a big mistake, our columnist John Schwartz says. They have apologized for what they say are errors. But he has a plan: He will proudly do bad things, evil things and, with total transparency, become obscenely rich.Read more » How 3 Funds Sidestepped a Market ThumpingSeveral top-performing funds outpaced their peers. They took different routes, like betting on Latin American companies, real estate investment trusts and dividend-paying stocks.Read more » Some Funds Win When Others Lose. But When the Others Win …So-called inverse funds that move against the market offer a way to hedge that can be splendid when most stocks fall. But these funds drop rapidly when the overall market rises, and they can quickly cause major damage to a portfolio.Read more » E.T.F.s Try to Lure Investors Into Ever Narrower NichesBy carving the stock market into specialized slices, these funds take investors into interesting places. Yet they may tempt shareholders to take imprudent risks in the quest for the next big thing.Read more » Health Care May Not Cure What Ails Portfolios This TimeDespite a history of performing well in down markets, investments in the health care industry have looked vulnerable amid uncertainty about American health insurance.Read more » A Book Says You Can Retire Early. But It Doesn’t Really Say How.The author of a new book argues that you probably can retire far sooner than you think, but she leaves out a lot of details.Read more » In This Market, It May Be Time to Play DefenseAfter a long stretch of market woes, investors have many choices for protecting their portfolios, from complicated maneuvers to a classic response: doing nothing.Read more » Follow Jeff Sommer on Twitter: @jeffsommerThe economic uncertainty that roiled the stock market at the end of 2018 hurt Citigroup’s trading business, the bank said on Monday, as a busy week of quarterly earnings reports by the country’s largest banks got off to a shaky start.Citi said it had almost a half-billion dollars less in revenue in the year’s fourth quarter than analysts had expected. The cause of the drop, the bank said, was an unexpectedly sharp decline in revenue from trading in government bonds, foreign currencies and other fixed income products as falling stock prices spooked investors.Investors have fretted for the past several months over the Federal Reserve’s next moves and President Trump’s unpredictable trade tariff announcements. Those concerns are not likely to dissipate, and Citi’s chief executive, Michael Corbat, said they could eventually be more of a drag on the economy than actual policy changes.“Right now, we see the biggest risk in the global economy as one of talking ourselves into a recession,” Mr. Corbat said in a conference call with analysts.Still, Citi warned that monetary and trade policies could affect its performance in the future.The bank’s chief financial officer, John Gerspach, said in a call with reporters that continuing uncertainty about how various countries’ central banks will carry out plans to drain excess cash from the global financial system and about the Trump administration’s protracted trade war with China risked hurting the American economy in the second half of this year or early in 2020.Citi recorded $17.1 billion in revenue for the quarter, compared with the $17.6 billion expected by analysts. The deficit did not indicate major problems for the bank, but it showed that, however vague, investors’ worries about the future can have a measurable impact on a big corporation’s results.[Read more about the key factors affecting stocks and the economy.]Furious activity in the financial markets can sometimes help companies that are close to Wall Street by generating more business for them, but Citi’s clients opted to hold tight as stocks began to drop in September, Mr. Gerspach said.“Clients — investors and corporate clients — waited on the sidelines,” he said.Citi customers, Mr. Gerspach said, did not ask the bank to make many trades on their behalf because they were “waiting for clearer market conditions” that never came.“In December, they got worse,” he said.As a result, Citi’s fixed income trading revenue for the fourth quarter was down 21 percent from the same period a year earlier and 39 percent below the results for the third quarter of 2018.The bank’s performance in other areas was solid. Loans and deposits ticked up again, and Citi said the administration’s corporate tax cuts had been slightly better for its balance sheet than originally estimated. Citi shares were up nearly 4 percent in trading Monday.Citigroup was the first of the country’s major banks to report fourth-quarter results. JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo will issue their reports on Tuesday, with Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley set to do so on Wednesday.John C. Bogle, who died on Wednesday, is widely seen as having changed how ordinary people invest their money. His firm, the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies, which grew to have $4.9 trillion under management, was built on a belief that, over the long term, most investment managers cannot outperform the broad stock market averages. “Jack Bogle made an impact on not only the entire investment industry, but more importantly, on the lives of countless individuals saving for their futures or their children’s futures,” Tim Buckley, Vanguard’s chief executive, said in a statement. Here are some of Mr. Bogle’s investment tips: 1. Stay the course“Wise investors won’t try to outsmart the market,” he says. “They’ll buy index funds for the long term, and they’ll diversify.” Long-term investors must hold stocks even though the market is risky, because they are still likely to produce better returns than the alternatives, Mr. Bogle said in 2012. Investors should weather any storms, he told The Wall Street Journal in 2016.“If we’re going to have lower returns, well, the worst thing you can do is reach for more yield. You just have to save more.” 2. Beware the experts Money managers missed all the warning signs before the 2008 financial crisis, Mr. Bogle noted: “How could so many highly skilled, highly paid securities analysts and researchers have failed to question the toxic-filled, leveraged balance sheets of Citigroup and other leading banks and investment banks?”In 2017, he waved younger investors away from financial advisers and gave his approval to robo-advisers. “Unless you need a financial adviser to help you get started in that routine, you probably don't need a financial adviser at all,” he told CNBC. 3. Keep costs down Vanguard’s fund shareholders own it collectively, so there is no parent company or private owner to siphon profit, allowing the firm to keep costs down. “In investing, you get what you don’t pay for. Costs matter. So intelligent investors will use low-cost index funds to build a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds, and they will stay the course. And they won’t be foolish enough to think that they can consistently outsmart the market.” Mr. Bogle became a harsh critic in his later years of the mutual fund industry and the high fees charged to investors for stock-picking expertise. 4. Don’t get emotional Invest in a diverse selection of stocks and bonds, trust in the arithmetic and stick to it — this was the essence of Mr. Bogle’s advice for Vanguard investors. “Impulse is your enemy,” was one of the mantras. “Eliminate emotion from your investment program. Have rational expectations for future returns and avoid changing those expectations in response to the ephemeral noise coming from Wall Street.” 5. Own the entire stock market Mr. Bogle was the leading proponent of structuring an investment portfolio to mirror the performance of a market yardstick, like the S&P 500 stock index. “The S&P 500 is a great proxy,” Mr. Bogle told The Wall Street Journal last year, adding that he hadn’t bought an individual stock in about 25 years. Mr. Bogle also told CNBC that the United States market was a safer bet than other markets. “U.S. companies are innovative and entrepreneurial,” he said. After years of being overshadowed by the likes of Apple and Alphabet, real estate funds have lately edged ahead of the overall stock market by betting mainly on old-fashioned assets like office buildings, malls and warehouses.In the fourth quarter, when the stock market really started to jitter and slide, the S&P 500 sank 13.52 percent, including dividends, but the FTSE Nareit All Equity R.E.I.T.s Index, a leading index composed of publicly traded real estate investment trusts, lost only 6.1 percent. For all of 2018, as the S&P 500 lost 4.4 percent, including dividends, the FTSE Nareit index lost only 4 percent.So it goes for this stalwart, if stodgy, sector: Real estate can often chug along when other sectors start to sputter. For that reason, a real estate mutual fund or exchange-traded fund may help buffer an otherwise diversified portfolio from some of the stock market’s swings. In addition, it’s an entree to investing in commercial real estate for someone who can’t afford the Empire State Building (which is owned by a R.E.I.T. named Empire State Realty Trust).R.E.I.T.s are property owners whose shares trade on stock exchanges. They can own a variety of real estate, ranging from the obvious — those office buildings, warehouses and shopping centers — to the more obscure — data centers, cell towers and even timberlands. Some own residential rental properties or finance home purchases, but those account for only about one-fifth of the overall R.E.I.T. market, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.A share in a real-estate mutual fund or E.T.F. is “effectively a hybrid of debt and equity,” said Michael J. Acton, managing director and head of research for AEW Capital Management in Boston. “The debt feature is lease payments you get from the underlying properties, and the equity feature is the right to re-lease or sell those properties.” The lease payments can provide predictability like bonds, while the property values offer upside potential like stocks.Morningstar, the investment-analysis company, found that from 1972 through 2018, R.E.I.T.s provided a compound average annual return of 11.5 percent, compared to 10.2 percent for United States stocks. Morningstar has also found that real-estate stocks are slightly more volatile, on average, than other stocks. During the global financial crisis, real estate crashed with other stock market sectors, with the FTSE Nareit index falling 37.7 percent.Still, real estate funds and E.T.F.s often can provide additional diversification to an investment portfolio because commercial property markets don’t usually move in lock step with stocks, Mr. Acton said. “There are leases in place, and the cash flows from those leases are already locked in.”In 2013 research paper, Pankaj Agrrawal, a finance professor at the University of Maine, found that adding real estate to a portfolio of stocks, bonds and gold both increased the return and damped the volatility. Professor Agrrawal split the hypothetical portfolio into sixths and allocated it equally across these asset classes: United States stocks, European stocks, emerging market stocks, United States bonds, gold and United States real estate.R.E.I.T.s must pay out at least 90 percent of their taxable income to shareholders. As a result, real estate funds can produce income in much the way bonds or utility stocks do. R.E.I.T.s tracked by the R.E.I.T. association provide an average annual yield of about 4 percent, compared with 1.87 percent for the S&P 500.How much of a fund investor’s overall portfolio should be allocated to real estate is a question, like so many in the investment world, that’s a matter of philosophical dispute.Matthew C. Brancato, a principal and head of the portfolio review department at Vanguard, said investors who own well-diversified index funds, like those built upon the S&P 500, may already have all the real estate they need. The S&P index includes 32 R.E.I.T.s, and together they account for about 3 percent of the index’s market capitalization.Layering a dedicated real estate fund or E.T.F. atop a broad-based core holding would imply that an investor wanted to “express a view about real estate” — either believing that it will outperform the rest of the market or just liking the sector, Mr. Brancato said.But portfolio managers of real estate funds say reasons beyond a fascination with bricks and blueprints might persuade investors to nudge their real estate allocations above that of broad-based index funds.For one thing, the allocations of the marketwide indexes are arguably too small, when compared to commercial real estate’s share of the economy, said Steve S. Shigekawa, senior portfolio manager of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund.“Commercial real estate is a very large market,” he said.Many large pension funds, which often buy commercial real estate directly, hold larger real estate allocations than that of the S&P 500, said Nina P. Jones, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Real Estate Fund. “Many of them have gravitated to 10 percent of their overall asset allocations,” she said. (Ms. Jones took over her fund on Jan. 1, after the retirement of David M. Lee, who led it since its 1997 inception.)Though real estate has performed well lately, there are, to swipe a line from the blues singer Robert Johnson, stones in its passway: Interest rates are rising, and retail real estate is being squeezed by the rise of e-commerce.Conventional wisdom says rising rates hurt real estate. The logic behind this is simple, said Jennifer Cookke, a lecturer in the Center for Real Estate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “You typically have debt on a property,” she said. “So when interest rates rise, costs are higher, and that reduces profit.”The managers of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund delved into whether rates really do damp R.E.I.T.s and learned that the effect was often temporary, said Brian Jones, who manages the fund with Mr. Shigekawa. “What we found is, in periods where interest rates were spiking, the performance of R.E.I.T.s suffered,” Mr. Jones said. “But if you go six and 12 months beyond a rate spike, R.E.I.T.s shares typically recover and do very well.”E-commerce’s effects won’t be sloughed off so easily. They can be summarized in a single name: Amazon. The online giant (and other e-commerce companies) is changing how people shop and raising questions about the need for physical storefronts.Steven J. Buller, portfolio manager of Fidelity Real Estate Investment Portfolio, said he foresaw continued demand for bricks-and-mortar stores — just fewer of them. “There’s too much retail space in the United States — 24 square feet a person, which is twice as much as Canada,” which has the second-highest amount in the world, he said.This country has 1,200 shopping malls alone, Mr. Buller said. “There are 400 class-A malls, and I think those will survive. The other 800? I don’t know.” Mr. Buller has allocated about 20 percent of his fund to retail holdings, and the Simon Property Group, the country’s largest mall R.E.I.T., is among his top stakes.An investor who wants to bet on real estate must make the usual choice between actively managed funds, like those offered by Neuberger Berman, T. Rowe Price and Fidelity, and passively managed indexed offerings.The latter include the Vanguard Real Estate Index Fund (which is also offered as an E.T.F.), the Schwab U.S. R.E.I.T. E.T.F. and the SPDR Dow Jones R.E.I.T. E.T.F.A misconception of some investors is that they’ve already diversified their portfolio with real estate because they own a house and perhaps a vacation rental, said Mr. Jones, of the Neuberger Berman fund. That sort of ownership is a narrow bet on one or two markets, comparable to owning one or two stocks instead of, say, an S&P 500 index fund. “You don’t derive the same diversification benefit that you can get from a R.E.I.T. fund,” he said. Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The huge swings that defined stock trading in December have ended. That doesn’t mean investors think everything is fine.In the bond market, traders of government debt are still signaling concerns about the direction of the United States economy. Among the clearest of these signs is the yield curve.The yield curve essentially measures the difference between short-term and long-term government bonds. When investors are expecting economic growth, interest rates on long-term bonds like the 10-year Treasury note are usually higher than those on short-term debt. Why? Because under normal circumstances it is riskier to lend money out for 10 years than for, say, three months. (A lot can happen over the next decade that might keep your loan from being repaid, even by the government.)But when concerns about the economy mount, that relationship can reverse. Investors tend to turn to long-term government bonds as a safe place to park money, pushing down their yields, while eschewing shorter-term government debt, causing the rates on those securities to rise.In the worst case, when the rate on shorter-term bonds rises above that of longer-term ones, the yield curve is said to have inverted. And for the past 60 years, when that has happened for a sustained period, it has accurately predicted a recession.We’re not there yet, but the gap between the two rates has been moving steadily closer for two years as the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates.The trend accelerated late last year as investors began to worry about risks to the United States economy. On Jan. 3, the gap between the three-month Treasury bill and the 10-year note shrank to just 0.14 percentage points, its narrowest level since September 2007, according to Tradeweb. It had stood at 0.89 percentage points at the start of November.But a surprisingly strong jobs report on Jan. 4 and some soothing words from the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, have taken some of the panic out of the stock market. The S&P 500 is up 7.7 percent since Jan. 3 and has been notably more stable even in the face of bad news about global growth.Concerns in the bond market haven’t faded nearly as much, however. The spread between the 10-year note and three-month bills has widened since Jan. 3, but at about 0.34 percentage points on Thursday, is only back to where its was at the end of December.What might explain the concerns? Well, there’s still plenty of evidence that the global economy is slowing down. Just this week, China reported its biggest monthly decline in exports in more than two years, and Germany said its economy had grown last year at its slowest rate since 2013.And, of course, there’s the government shutdown. Typically the effect of a shutdown on the economy is short-lived. The longer the impasse goes on, however, the greater the chance that it can stall economic growth.For now, though, the bond market is not signaling a recession. It has not inverted for a sustained period, and a flattening yield curve is not a consistent predictor of a coming recession. Only 20 percent of the time has the economy contracted in the 12 months after the spread between short-term and long-term government bonds narrowed to its current level, according to data from James Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at the research firm Leuthold Group.Suddenly economic populism is all the rage. In his now famous monologue on Fox News, Tucker Carlson argued that American elites are using ruthless market forces to enrich themselves and immiserate everyone else. On the campaign trail, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are telling left-wing versions of the same story.In an era of tribal emotionalism, you’re always going to be able to make a splash reducing a complex problem to a simple narrative that separates the world into the virtuous us, and the evil them (the bankers). But I’d tell a third story about our current plight, which is neither economic populism nor free-market fundamentalism.My story begins in the 1970s. The economy was sick. Corporations were bloated. Unions got greedy. Tax rates were too high and regulations were too tight. We needed to restore economic dynamism.So in 1978, Jimmy Carter signed a tax bill that reduced individual and corporate tax rates. Senator Ted Kennedy led the effort to deregulate the airline and trucking industries. When he came into office, Ronald Reagan took it up another notch.It basically worked. We’ve had four long economic booms since then. But there was an interesting cultural shift that happened along the way. In a healthy society, people try to balance a whole bunch of different priorities: economic, social, moral, familial. Somehow over the past 40 years economic priorities took the top spot and obliterated everything else. As a matter of policy, we privileged economics and then eventually no longer could even see that there could be other priorities.For example, there’s been a striking shift in how corporations see themselves. In normal times, corporations serve a lot of stakeholders — customers, employees, the towns in which they are located. But these days corporations see themselves as serving one purpose and one stakeholder — maximizing shareholder value. Activist investors demand that every company ruthlessly cut the cost of its employees and ruthlessly screw its hometown if it will raise the short-term stock price.We turned off the moral lens. You probably know the example of the Israeli day care centers. Parents kept showing up late to pick up their kids. To address the problem, the centers experimented with fining the late parents. But the number of late pickups doubled. Before, coming to pick up your kid on time was a moral obligation — to be fair to the day care workers. After, it was seen as an economic transaction. Parents were happy to pay to be late. We more or less did this as an entire society — we switched to a purely economic lens.A deadly combination of right-wing free-market fundamentalism and left-wing moral relativism led to a withering away of moral norms and shared codes of decent conduct. We ripped the market out of its moral and social context and let it operate purely by its own rules. We made the market its own priest and confessor.Society came to be seen as an atomized collection of individual economic units pursuing self-interest. Selfishness was normalized. As Steven Pearlstein puts it in his outstanding book, “Can American Capitalism Survive?” “Old-fashioned norms around loyalty, cooperation, honesty, equality, fairness and compassion no longer seem to apply in the economic sphere.”Anything you could legally do to make money was deemed O.K. A billion-dollar salary for a hedge fund manager? Perfectly acceptable. The Apple corporation exists because of American institutions. But, as Pearlstein notes, Apple parked its intellectual property in an Irish subsidiary so it could avoid paying taxes in America and support those institutions. It saved $9 billion in 2012 alone. This is clearly sleazy behavior. Apple employees should be humiliated and ashamed.But today the amoralism of the trading floor governs corporate decision-making. Pearlstein quotes Carl Icahn: “I don’t believe in the word ‘fair.’” So Apple paid no reputational price when it stiffed its own country.Social trust arises from a covenant: I give to my company, my town and my government, and they give back to me. But that covenant was ripped. Now the general perception is: When I give, they take. As we disembedded individuals from traditional moral norms we disembedded companies from social ones. Human beings are moral animals, and suddenly American moral animals found themselves in an amoral economic system, which felt increasingly alienating and gross.We wound up with the secession of the successful, and in many parts of the country we wound up decimating the social trust that is actually a prerequisite for economic prosperity.Capitalism is a wonderful system. The populists are perpetually living in 2008, when the financial crisis vindicated all their prejudices. They ignore everything since — the 19 million jobs that have been created, the way wages are now rising at 3.2 percent.But capitalism needs to be embedded in moral norms and it needs to serve a larger social good. Remoralizing and resocializing the market is the great project of the moment. The crucial question is not: How can we have a good economy? It’s: How can we have a good society? How can we have a society in which it’s easier to be a good person?Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.After rising for nine years in a so-so economy in the belief that prosperity was just around the corner, stocks swooned, even as growth picked up.That left many investors wondering whether the economy is turning another corner into a place where danger, maybe even a recession and a prolonged bear market, lurk.The S&P 500 dropped 13.5 percent during the fourth quarter, including dividends, giving the index a 4.4 percent loss for the year by that measure. It was the worst performance since 2008, despite strong corporate earnings and the best readings in several decades in unemployment and consumer confidence.As 2019 unfolds and the economic picture becomes clearer, it is possible that stocks will have a sustained, orderly recovery, investment advisers say. But achieving that clarity will take time, so they encourage investors to demand a lot of evidence that a recession will be avoided before they commit money to stocks or other risky assets.“A lot of the derating that happened in the second half of 2018 started off being driven by political risk, but in the last few weeks, it has been driven by concerns about growth and stability,” said Kate Moore, chief equity strategist at BlackRock, referring to the decline in stocks. “I think that’s going to go on in the first few weeks of 2019. Everyone’s focused on economic data.”Ms. Moore highlighted surveys showing weaker-than-expected business conditions and added: “It’s going to take time for that to work itself through the market. I would expect more volatility as we take in new data points.”Just how weak those data points are likely to be is hard to predict.“The underlying fundamentals of the economy certainly have deteriorated,” said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. He noted that the five monthly regional business surveys conducted by Federal Reserve districts “were all extremely weak in December.”But the latest employment report was not. It showed 312,000 net jobs created last month.“We have a very mixed economic picture right now,” Mr. Yardeni said. “It all adds up to an economy that’s slowing but probably still growing.” If that’s true, then 2019 may not be so bad for the market.“Stocks are very cheap, with one important qualification,” he said: “You have to believe the economy is not going to wind up in recession.”He then offered another qualification, about forthcoming corporate earnings reports: “We still have to curb our enthusiasm because we can’t get too excited about the earnings outlook.”The tax cuts that took effect in 2018 sent earnings up so much for the year — the latest estimate for the S&P 500 was 20.2 percent, according to FactSet Research — that a 5 percent rise in earnings in 2019, aided by corporate buybacks, is about as much as Wall Street can expect, Mr. Yardeni said. FactSet’s latest forecast is for a 7.3 percent increase.Despite some good days for the market in January that may have been prompted by signs of flexibility from the Federal Reserve, the way stocks tumbled late in the year hardly inspires confidence. With anything like a repeat performance, investors will have to hope that other assets provide better protection than in 2018, when there were few places to hide.“Cash was the only major asset class that posted positive returns in ’18,” according to a Bank of America report. Even the reed-thin 1.9 percent return on cash in money market funds was less than the 2.2 percent consumer inflation rate, the report said, but at least it was a positive number. Long-term government bonds, corporate bonds and gold all lost ground, although they beat the return of the S&P 500. Oil and foreign stocks were among the investments that did worse.The average domestic stock fund lost 14.2 percent in the fourth quarter, with specialists in natural resources, technology and financial services leading the way down. These funds dropped 6.8 percent during the year, according to Morningstar. International stock funds outperformed during the quarter, losing 10.9 percent, but trailed badly for the full year, down 13.2 percent.Bond funds lost 0.9 percent in the quarter and 1 percent for all of 2018. High-yield portfolios were particularly weak, off 4.6 percent for the quarter and 2.8 percent for the year.Such across-the-board weakness is rare “because what tends to be bad for one asset tends to be good for some other asset somewhere,” said Ben Inker, head of asset allocation for the investment firm GMO. “The basic exception is when there is a combination of rising rates and slowing growth. Risky assets don’t like slowing growth, and fixed income doesn’t like rising rates.”Mr. Inker, like many, is worried that the Fed could push a fragile economy into recession. That would be “fairly ugly for valuations” of American stocks, he said, and he would avoid them even if he were confident that a recession could be skirted. He prefers stocks and bonds in emerging markets, which are much cheaper than their counterparts in mature economies.“We’re reasonably bullish on our ability to make money in 2019, just not in the assets most people have most of their money in,” he said.One reason for the poor returns on stocks, especially in December, is that the Fed initially had not seemed to share the fear felt on Wall Street. When the Fed raised its target for short-term interest rates last month, the move was almost universally anticipated, but the statement about economic conditions and monetary policy made after the increase “was not as dovish as the market was hoping for,” said Steve Kane, a bond fund manager at TCW.Recent data “signals an economic slowdown,” and not just in the United States, Mr. Kane said. Surveys “confirm a significant drop in manufacturing activity. There are also signals that growth in China is slowing dramatically and significantly,” he said.The flattening yield curve, with short-term interest rates approaching long-term rates, is consistent with an economy that is running out of steam, and a source of concern in itself. But recent remarks by Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the central bank will have “patience” in deciding whether to raise rates, appeared to cheer the markets.If rates are priced for a slowdown, some corporate bonds are not, Mr. Kane said. At least not yet. Spreads in yields between corporate and government debt have widened, taking bond prices down. Medium-term investment-grade corporate issues yielded 1.76 percentage points more than equivalent Treasury paper, as of Tuesday, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and an index of high-yield debt yielded 4.65 points more. A two-point cushion is roughly where investment-grade spreads tend to peak during a slowdown, but high-yield spreads typically soar to 10 points.“One should look at the fixed-income market as being more attractive to invest in 2019 than 2018, but one must still invest with some degree of caution, especially in the high-yield market,” he said. “There will be better opportunities later in the year” in high yield, while “there is not too much downside to investment-grade credit at this point.” He called it “a fairly good asset class if we’re in the midst of a bear market in equities.”Stocks that Ms. Moore at BlackRock thinks would do comparatively well against such a backdrop are of companies that are financially strong and able to grow, even when economic growth is modest at best. Health care is her top sector because it has those defensive qualities, as well as pockets of innovation, such as in medical technology, that support high profit margins.She said she is “not throwing in the towel on tech” in general, despite plunging share prices in big names like Apple and Facebook, and she said she particularly likes Asian tech companies. Ms. Moore also is “modestly encouraged” about emerging markets in Latin America and Asia, most notably Brazil and India.Brian Singer, head of dynamic allocation strategies at William Blair & Company, has been investing “with a greater emphasis on risk management,” he said. He finds American stocks “fundamentally less attractive” than others, such as emerging markets, including the two that Ms. Moore mentioned.Among mature economies, Mr. Singer likes Britain, although he would rather wait until the question of its departure from the European Union, Brexit, is settled before stepping in, and Spain. Markets he is shunning, aside from the United States, are Japan, Canada, Mexico and South Africa. As for bonds, he is avoiding the high-yield market, and he talked up the virtues of another asset class that is often overlooked.“In this environment, cash will be a relatively good alternative,” he said. “It won’t be a great return generator, but being cautious and holding cash is not a bad idea. It really is a time to remain defensive and have dry powder on hand.”With so much up in the air, Mr. Yardeni recommends not getting carried away. Investors should be selective about stocks and avoid index-tracking exchange-traded funds.“This is probably a year for stock pickers,” he said. “It’s not a year for E.T.F.s.”He would emphasize domestic stocks and limit exposure to emerging markets, which may suffer from soft commodity prices, and to Europe, which is dealing with thorny issues like Brexit and Italy’s recalcitrance in reining in government spending. The aging population bodes ill for long-term growth in Europe, too, Mr. Yardeni said, something that also applies in China.He favors industries like technology, communications and media, which he expects to benefit over the long haul from the impending introduction of 5G, the fifth generation of mobile communications technology. Big banks and health care companies should do well, too, he said.With investors focused on what’s going wrong, Mr. Kane recommends that they also keep in mind what’s going right, in particular the strong job market, although he noted that employment is often the last indicator to deteriorate as the economic cycle turns.“If that part of the economy holds up, then this may not be a recession,” he said. “You could get a very nice return for stocks if that turns out to be the environment.” But he acknowledged that it’s a big if.A crucial question for him is whether the decline will be fairly mild by the time it’s over, or something more severe, as in the 2008 financial crisis. For all the talk of recession, the losses so far have appeared calm and orderly, suggesting to him that too few investors have been asking the same question.“Whether it’s a garden-variety or end-of-days bear market,” he said, “there’s going to be panic, and we haven’t gotten quite there yet.”The stock market’s strong start to the year stalled on Tuesday, amid growing pessimism about the prospects for a deal to defuse trade tensions between China and the United States.The S&P 500, which had enjoyed its best start to a year since 1987 through the end of trading on Friday, ended Tuesday down 1.4 percent, the market’s second-worst loss of the year.Stocks slumped from the outset, and the selling worsened through the day after The Financial Times reported that the Trump administration had rejected an offer from China to hold preparatory talks ahead of high-level trade meetings in Washington later this month.Such advance discussions are thought to be an important step toward cementing an agreement between the world’s two largest economies before March 1. After that date, tariffs on some $200 billion of Chinese goods are scheduled to rise sharply, which would send the trade war into a new and more serious phase.Trade-sensitive tech and industrial shares were the worst performers. Microsoft, Facebook and Google’s parent company, Alphabet, all slumped. Semiconductor makers — much of whose revenue comes from sales in China — tumbled, with Nvidia and Micron dropping more than 5 percent.The major industrial exporters Caterpillar and Boeing fell 3.2 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.The tone from industrial firms that reported earnings on Tuesday did little to improve the mood. Shares of the tool manufacturer Stanley Black & Decker tumbled more than 15 percent after the company offered a disappointing outlook for 2019.“We tried to make it very clear that the economic backdrop is one of slowing growth,” James M. Loree, chief executive of Stanley Black & Decker, said on a conference call with analysts.The trade war seems to be a growing source of weakness for the global economy. On Monday, China reported that its economy grew at its slowest rate, 6.6 percent, since 1990, amid a slowdown of its export sector.The report came the same day as the International Monetary Fund trimmed its forecast for global growth in 2019 to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent, citing, in part, slowing worldwide trade.Corporate warnings about China’s sluggish economy hit stocks on Monday as the battle between the world’s largest economies over trade and technology continued to weigh on the outlook for growth and profits.The warnings, which came from the chipmaker Nvidia and the bulldozer builder Caterpillar, concerned very different sectors of China’s economy. But the message was nearly the same, as was the sharp tumble in shares, which made them the two worst performing stocks in the S&P 500. The broad index dropped almost 0.8 percent on Monday.Nvidia, which makes technology that allows computers to quickly render graphics for games, cut its expectations for revenue in the fourth quarter by roughly half a billion dollars, to $2.2 billion, sending its shares down nearly 14 percent. The Santa Clara, Calif., company cited “deteriorating macroeconomic conditions, particularly in China,” for hampering demand for such graphics-processing chips.Shares of other chipmakers — which derive large chunks of their revenue from sales in China — fell in sympathy with Nvidia. Advanced Micro Devices tumbled almost 8 percent, helping to make the information technology sector one of the worst-performing parts of the S&P 500 on Monday.Meanwhile, Caterpillar, which builds bulldozers, excavators and dump trucks, was down 9 percent after the quarterly profit it reported on Monday fell short of the expectations of Wall Street analysts.The Deerfield, Ill., industrial giant also undershot analyst expectations for its full-year profit forecast. The company said it now expected construction equipment sales in China — somewhere between 10 percent and 15 percent of all of the companies’ construction sales — to be flat in 2019.The health of the Chinese economy, which is the world’s second largest, has emerged as a key risk to the American stock market in 2019. Last year China grew at its slowest pace in 28 years, as it continues shift away from the model that drove the country’s economic rise in recent decades, focusing on industrial exports. It has pushed toward a model that relies more on consumer spending.That transition has been made even more difficult by the eruption of a tariff war with the United States under President Trump. Originally that fight was centered on cutting China’s longstanding trade surplus with the United States, but has more recently expanded to tough-to-resolve issues around determining technological dominance, which would be even more difficult to solve anytime soon.The re-emergence of investor concerns around China have helped cool what was a sizzling start to the year for the American stock market. Through the first three weeks of the year, the S&P was up 6.5 percent, the index’s best start since 1987. It remains up more than 5 percent.The colossal disarray over the British government’s plans to leave the European Union comes at an awkward moment for global financial markets.How can anyone in New York hope to make sense of the mess in London when the government in Washington is closed one day, set to re-open the next and in danger of shutting down again soon?Yet financial markets put a price on just about anything, and they don’t stop functioning when governments do. Even when a projected outcome is gruesome or improbable, some traders will try to make a wager on it. Bets on “Brexit” — Britain’s exit from the European Union — and the effects of the government shutdown in this country are well underway.Whether these bets are humane or prudent is another question. But the shifting odds on Brexit have moved stock, bond and foreign exchange markets, especially in the past two weeks, as the government of Prime Minister Theresa May has flirted with disaster.Events in London have grabbed strategists’ attention. In a note to clients on Jan. 16, Capital Economics, a research group in London, said it placed a 70 percent probability on this broad outcome: that Britain finds a way to “fudge and delay” its exit from the European Union past the current March 29 deadline.If that delay becomes certain, or just more likely than it seems now, Capital Economics said, the value of the British pound could be expected to rise. At the same time, British stocks, which have generally lagged behind the S&P 500 since the Brexit referendum in 2016, would probably surge, Capital Economics said.Abrupt movements in foreign exchange markets have already occurred. The pound fell sharply on Jan. 15, when Parliament dealt Mrs. May a crushing defeat. By the largest margin ever for a major issue, lawmakers rejected the Brexit agreement she had spent months negotiating with the European Union.But the next day Mrs. May survived a no-confidence vote, not by acclamation but by default: The opposition Labour Party simply could not muster enough votes to defeat her. She has soldiered on, as the Brexit deadline draws ever closer. Not incidentally, the pound has regained some of its lost ground.March 29 remains a meaningful deadline. One way or another, Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union then. Yet lawmakers and Mrs. May’s government have been unable to agree on a course of action. To continue deliberating about what to do, they would need to ask the bloc for an extension, like a team of unruly students who cannot even agree on a topic as a term-paper deadline approaches.Yet a delay is what most betting people think will happen, according to Capital Economics, which believes a negotiated settlement will, eventually, mitigate much of the harm that could be inflicted by an abrupt exit. This expectation is reflected in current stock, bond and currency prices, Capital Economics said.Bettors have not ruled out a much more disruptive scenario that is viewed as a low-probability event — somewhere below 20 percent but above zero. That is Britain’s exit on March 29 without any negotiated agreement at all.What would that mean? The Bank of England has boiled the probable effects down in straightforward and troubling terms. In a November report it projected that such a “no deal Brexit” would be a major shock that could subtract more than 10 percent from Britain’s gross domestic product.Unemployment would soar, inflation would rise and Britain would fall into a serious recession, the central bank said. While the sun set on the British Empire long ago, the fallout of a calamity in Britain for the European Union, the global markets and the worldwide economy, would be significant, if less easily measured.Goldman Sachs is less sanguine than rank-and-file bettors: In a report this month, it placed the odds that Brexit would be delayed at only 50-50. And, it said, “the distribution of risks around Brexit outcomes is widening.”Goldman placed a 40 percent probability on the chance that Britain, in the end, would not leave the European Union at all, which would be accomplished through another referendum repudiating the original vote. The bank assigned a 10 percent probability to a no-deal Brexit on March 29, with potentially calamitous consequences.For investors in the United States, Goldman produced a list of companies in the S&P 500 that derive considerable revenue from Britain. Buying shares of these stocks, or betting against them by shorting them, might be a handy way of using the American stock market to place a Brexit wager. The companies include Newmont Mining; PPL, a utility; and three financial services companies: Affiliated Managers; Willis, Towers, Watson; and Invesco.Corporations active in Britain have been hedging against Brexit for months, of course, by shifting parts of their operations to places deemed more stable.The latest to announce a move is Dyson, the appliances company privately held by James Dyson, an outspoken Brexit advocate. The company said this week that it would move its headquarters to Singapore. In an article in The Telegraph, Mr. Dyson assured his countrymen that he was making this move because of Asia’s expanding place in the company’s global operations, not because of Brexit.Whatever his reasons, most British residents can’t hedge against Brexit by relocating part of their households to another country. Instead, if the probability of a wrenching separation from Europe appeared to be rising, prudent people might take the steps that anyone does when a possible disaster looms: hoarding necessities like food, water and medicine; stocking up on cash and fuel; retreating to safer ground, if any can be found.Such measures may be individual lifesavers, but when many people take them at once, they may make a crisis more severe, especially when confidence in government is ebbing.Global markets shudder when panics start, which is why bets on potential crises are risky. And if this is true for Brexit, what can we say about the longest government shutdown in United States history?Financial markets have largely taken the shutdown, and the news Friday of a deal to re-open the government for three weeks, in stride. Despite the pain inflicted on government workers and those who depend on them, economists have generally concluded that the effects will be transitory.But even if a permanent funding agreement is reached, political tensions in the United States remain high, amid a series of simmering crises that could easily unnerve markets. These include the trade conflict between the United States and China and America’s fraying relations with allies like Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and Mexico.Market calculations shift swiftly, and hedging against losses on multiple fronts could quickly become the order of the day.Anyone paying attention to financial markets in recent months knew that the Federal Reserve’s management of the economy was perhaps the single most important question on the minds of investors.The Fed, of course, has been raising interest rates, including four increases last year, which unnerved many investors. These days, though, the focus has shifted to what the central bank will do with another tool it previously used to stoke economic growth.As part of its campaign to rescue the economy after the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed bought enormous quantities of bonds issued or guaranteed by the federal government. Now the question is how quickly, and by how much, it will shrink that pile. On Wednesday, the Fed left rates unchanged and signaled that it could slow its bond sales if economic and financial conditions change. Investors cheered, with the S&P 500 rising about 1.5 percent. The index is up nearly 7 percent this year.Once an area of interest for only the most intrepid of Fed watchers, the bond portfolio has started to overshadow more fundamental economic concerns, like China’s slowing economy and the government shutdown. Since last year, the Fed has been reducing its bond stockpile by up to $50 billion a month. Investors increasingly point to the trend to explain the ugly performances of virtually every kind of investment in 2018. Even President Trump weighed in, tweeting in December that the Fed should “Stop with the 50 B’s.”Players in the markets have bestowed the Fed’s bond-shedding policy with its very own nickname: quantitative tightening, or Q.T.So what is quantitative tightening? How is it supposed to work? And how much of an impact is it having on markets? Read on.Before there was Q.T., there was Q.E.The first thing to know is that quantitative tightening is basically the slow unwinding of a series of policies put in place to counter the financial crisis. A decade ago, that crisis nearly pushed the United States into a second Great Depression. Financial markets crashed. Unemployment surged. Economic growth collapsed. By law, the Fed is supposed to fight unemployment. So, when recession rears its head, the central bank steps in, typically by cutting the short-term interest rates it controls. By the end of 2008, it had slashed them essentially to zero. During normal times, short-term interest rates have a strong influence on how much it costs consumers and companies to borrow money. But during the financial crisis, the Fed’s rate cuts barely budged longer-term borrowing rates, which stayed stubbornly high. Investors were so spooked that they refused to put their money into anything other than super-safe, short-term government bonds. The Fed needed to push longer-term interest rates down. With short-term rates at their lowest possible levels, the central bank went looking for new tools. And that is how quantitative easing was born. In early 2009, the Fed started buying immense quantities of bonds — trying to drive their prices up and their rates down. By 2014, the Fed was the proud owner of roughly $2.5 trillion worth of Treasury bonds and more than $1.5 trillion of government-backed mortgage bonds. Did it work?Yes. The Fed’s bond-buying didn’t immediately cure every economic ill brought on by the recession. The United States would limp through nearly a decade of sluggish growth, even as the Fed continued to devour bonds. But the consensus among investors and policymakers is that all of the bond purchases helped push key borrowing rates — such as those for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages and for corporate bonds — to their lowest levels in a generation. That made loans at least a little more affordable and offered some support to the fragile economy. In the stock and bond markets, the power of the Fed’s campaign was even more pronounced. By pumping trillions of dollars into the financial system, quantitative easing propped up the value of stocks, bonds and all sorts of other assets. Few in the markets think it a coincidence that the beginning of Q.E. was also the beginning of the longest bull market in history.Now comes Q.T.A decade later, the economy is in much better shape. Unemployment is at its lowest level in decades. Early data indicates that the economy last year grew at its fastest clip since 2005. Wages are even starting to rise. To the central bank, those rosy economic signs meant it was time to start removing some of the scaffolding it had erected to support the crumbling economy. The Fed started raising interest rates in December 2015. And it has also started to shrink its hoard of bonds. Last year, the Fed’s portfolio declined by more than $350 billion — the sharpest reduction since the crisis. You may have also noticed that the financial markets were battered last year. Almost every type of investment seemed to suffer the same lackluster returns. The S&P 500 was down 6.2 percent. High-quality corporate bonds sank 6.4 percent. United States Treasury bonds generated a paltry 0.9 percent return. A collapse in crude oil prices sent commodities down more than 15 percent. In fact, it was the first time in decades that virtually all major classes of investments suffered in sync, with none posting returns in excess of 5 percent. The concern over Q.T. flared in December. As stock markets swung wildly, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, played down the chance that the central bank would change its approach to its steady bond reductions, which he described as being on “automatic pilot.” The stock market sank about 6 percent in the days after that statement. The Fed’s shrinking bond portfolio isn’t entirely to blame for the carnage of 2018. Plenty of other things had investors worrying: a slowdown in global growth, weakening corporate profits, the trade war with China and the Fed’s rate increases.Economists inside and outside the Fed say the impact last year should have been relatively small. After all, the gradual, recurring bond reductions were set in motion years ago, and should have been incorporated into prices in financial markets.Nevertheless, investors welcomed the Fed’s message on Wednesday that it could change its plans to reduce its bond holdings. The central bank said in a news release that it was “prepared to adjust any of the details for completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments.” In a news conference, Mr. Powell also suggested that the decline of the Fed’s bond holdings could stop sooner and leave the Fed with a larger supply of bonds than previously thought. “Any conversation about the balance sheet that does not use the word autopilot is good,” said Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute.  Fears of an imminent recession, which caused major turbulence in financial markets at the end of 2018 and beginning of 2019, have eased a bit.That’s the good news. The bad news is what that episode exposed.For much of 2018, it appeared that the world economy was finally getting out of the rut it had been stuck in for the decade since the global financial crisis. But it now looks as if the era of persistently low growth, low inflation and low interest rates isn’t over after all.In the past week alone, the European Central Bank said that economic risks had “moved to the downside,” and the Bank of Japan cut its projections for inflation. The Federal Reserve will hold a policy meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, and is likely to leave its interest rate target unchanged. Its leaders could also discuss their broader strategy for making monetary policy, which may include keeping more of their giant portfolio of bonds — accumulated during its years of stimulus efforts — than analysts had once expected.Despite some promising signs of vitality during much of last year, issues that have dogged the world economy for the last decade — an aging work force in many of the biggest economies, weak growth in productivity, excessive global savings and industrial capacity, and a shortage of worldwide demand — haven’t disappeared.That helps explain why American workers’ wages have been rising relatively slowly despite a low unemployment rate. And it makes for a perilous time: Low growth rates mean the economy could slip into recession more easily, and low interest rates mean central bankers would find themselves with less powerful tools to lessen the pain of a future downturn.“This shows that the forces that are restraining many economies are a lot harder to contend with and more pervasive than many people were hoping or believing,” said Roberto Perli, a partner in Cornerstone Macro. “It’s bad news for the work force’s earnings prospects in many countries and for those who hope for a reversal of the growing inequality trend that has been in place for many years.”Consider that markets went haywire in the final weeks of 2018 in significant part because of fears that the Federal Reserve was raising rates by more than the economy could handle. Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, played a big role in fueling a stock market rebound when, on Jan. 4, he pledged that the Fed would adjust policy “quickly and flexibly” as conditions warranted.His predecessor, Janet Yellen, went so far as to say recently that “it’s very possible we may have seen the last interest rate hike of this cycle.” But what does it mean when a mere 2.4 percent interest rate — the rough level of the Fed’s target after a December increase — is enough to risk breaking the economy?The story is even more pessimistic in the European Union, where interest rates are slightly below zero and yet growth is faltering. With the world economy heavily reliant on stimulus to achieve even meager growth, there is little cushion for a negative shock. In particular, it makes the United States more vulnerable to recession caused by any number of factors, including government shutdowns and trade wars.Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said, “If this is what growth and investment look like when there is relatively loose monetary and fiscal policy — especially in the U.S. — the underlying strength just isn’t there.“That doesn’t mean policy is ineffective or ill-advised. Things would be much worse, unnecessarily, if policy tightened a lot. But it is scary to think of the world economy absent macro support,” meaning the stimulus provided by low interest rates and large deficits.There is the risk of a nasty feedback loop. The low-growth trap of the last decade — and the resulting stagnant incomes — might have contributed to dysfunctional politics in nations including Britain, Italy and the United States. Those dysfunctional politics in turn can create new risks of economic disruption, as we saw in the recent shutdown standoff in Washington.Last year began with signs of a new economic era. In early February, the stock market was falling amid concerns that the United States economy was overheating; that wages and prices would start rising too fast; and that the Fed would need to raise interest rates faster to rein things in. Shifts in bond markets suggested investors were betting on higher future inflation, and on higher interest rates in the distant future than in the near future.For the first time in ages, most of the major advanced and emerging economies were enjoying simultaneous growth surges. As 2018 progressed, inflation in the United States finally moved back up to the 2 percent level that the Federal Reserve targets, and the Fed’s pattern of once-a-quarter rate increases became mostly a nonevent in markets.It was starting to look as if the old economic rules — that low unemployment would translate into higher inflation, that large government deficits would crowd out private investment — were becoming true again.But in the sell-off that knocked about 10 percent off the S&P 500 from the start of October to Christmas Eve, long-term interest rates fell by more than half a percentage point. Bond prices pointed to lower future inflation, as did plunging oil prices.The expected annual inflation rate in the next decade — reflected in the price of inflation-protected bonds — rose to 2.18 percent in April 2018 from 1.66 percent in June 2017. It hovered in the 2.18 range for a few months, then plunged in late October to a recent low of 1.7 percent.And prices in futures markets reflected expectations that the Fed would enact no more interest rate increases in 2019. Even as the consensus view of Fed officials at their December meeting was that two interest rate increases were on tap for 2019, markets were essentially flashing a signal of “Oh no, you don’t.”At the same time, weaker growth in China — a reported 6.6 percent in 2018, still strong by American or European standards — removes a source of strength for the global economy. China is trying to wean itself off debt-driven growth. “Chinese policymakers are well aware they probably have a credit bubble and have tried to be more temperate in response to the current slowdown,” said Julia Coronado, president of MacroPolicy Perspectives. “But it is hard to accept low growth potential. We see the political instability that that brings around the world, and China is now faced with the uncomfortable decision of re-initiating stimulus or living with notably slower growth.”The world economy is not in crisis. Low growth is better than no growth — or outright contraction.But what the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The low-growth world was not just a phase. It’s the new reality beneath every macroeconomic question and debate for the foreseeable future.You may not have appreciated it at the time — golden eras have a habit of coming and going like that — but a five-year stretch that started in 2013 was a pretty great time to buy a washing machine. Inflation for home laundry equipment, as measured by the Labor Department, fell steadily during that time, which meant you could buy the same washer your neighbor bought last year for less money. Or you could buy a better one at the same price. Great news for your clothes, though maybe bad news for your friendship, if your neighbor was the covetous type. That stretch of laundry deflation ended last year, shortly after President Trump imposed tariffs, starting at 20 percent, on imported washers. The move was a response to a complaint filed by Whirlpool, a Michigan-based manufacturer. The company has long dominated the washing machine business — many Americans have had Whirlpools in their laundry rooms for decades — but has recently faced stiffer competition from foreign manufacturers. Whirlpool claimed that foreign competitors like LG and Samsung were flooding the appliance market with washing machines from South Korea and Mexico at prices so low that they were hurting American makers. As an effort to help domestic producers, the tariffs worked — very briefly. Whirlpool added 200 jobs at its factory in Clyde, Ohio. Its stock price jumped $20 per share in the first few days after the tariffs took effect. Then things went bad.A year after Mr. Trump announced the tariffs, washing machine prices were up, as many analysts had expected. But that has not been a boon to the makers of washers because fewer Americans are investing in new laundry equipment, exposing how protectionist trade policies can backfire on the very companies they are meant to safeguard. Tariffs of two varieties have pushed prices upThe washer-specific tariffs raised costs for importers like LG and Samsung. But another tariff issued by Mr. Trump, on imported steel, raised costs for some domestic manufacturers like Whirlpool, which took those companies by surprise. Many manufacturers passed those higher costs on to consumers. Once stores worked their way through models that had been imported before tariffs hit, deflation gave way to sharp price increases. After years of steady growth, sales reversed in 2018A basic rule of economics is that when the price of something goes up, people buy less of it. That’s just what happened to washing machines.Data from the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers shows that shipments of washing machines increased by an average of 5 percent a year from 2015 to 2017. Last year, shipments fell 3 percent.Retailers saw that reaction in real time. “We have seen, as you mentioned, tariffs’ impact in laundry,” Craig Menear, the chairman and chief executive of the Home Depot, told analysts on an earnings call in November.Retailers were hurt, but manufacturers were hurt more Washing machines make up a small slice of Home Depot’s business. They’re more important for Whirlpool, Samsung and other manufacturers — and the stocks of those businesses have been hammered this year. Laundry appliances made up nearly 30 percent of Whirlpool’s sales in 2017. The company’s shares gave up their initial gains after the tariffs were announced, and then fell some more.Through the third quarter, Whirlpool’s unit sales were down 2.5 percent in North America, compared with the same period in its previous fiscal year. The company’s executives said in an October earnings call that they expected to be hit by an additional $300 million in cost increases, largely driven by the steel tariff, in the year to come. A Whirlpool spokesman declined to comment, citing a company policy not to talk about continuing trade issues. But the company confirmed it did, in fact, add 200 employees in Ohio.Things should get better in 2019Mr. Trump’s tariff rate on washing machines will drop two percentage points, to 18 percent, this year, which should mildly ease the pressure on companies and consumers. Retailers say they have seen signs that suggest the worst is over: Ted Decker, executive vice president for merchandising at Home Depot, told analysts in November that after several difficult months with washing machines, “our laundry sales and unit productivity is on par, if not slightly better, than the average of our overall appliance business.”The three-month average for laundry equipment inflation peaked in July, at 20 percent. In December, that increase was just 1.6 percent. This makes sense, economically: Tariffs jolted prices upward, but the overall trend in the appliance industry remains downward. If your neighbor bought a new washer last June and you buy the same one this June, there’s a decent chance it will be cheaper.You might not even need to wait that long. Retail websites suggest that if you run out to your local appliance store this weekend, you’re likely to find a bunch of washing machines, American made and imported, on sale. Good Tuesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A bleak message reverberates in DavosAn influential financier warned investors in a letter to pay heed to growing risks and social tensions — and the message is already resonating at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Andrew writes in his column.In his annual letter, Seth A. Klarman, the billionaire investor who runs the Baupost Group hedge fund, warns that social and political division risks economic calamity:“It can’t be business as usual amid constant protests, riots, shutdowns and escalating social tensions.”His message is likely to encourage hand-wringing of a sort usually seen in Davos, Andrew writes.Mr. Klarman says mounting debt in developed countries since the 2008 financial crisis could lead to a financial panic. He is especially worried about the debt load in the United States:“There is no way to know how much debt is too much, but America will inevitably reach an inflection point whereupon a suddenly more skeptical debt market will refuse to continue to lend to us at rates we can afford. By the time such a crisis hits, it will likely be too late to get our house in order.”More from Davos: Political turmoil has led several world leaders to skip the gathering. And less than a quarter of people attending are women.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________China’s economy expands at its slowest paceThe world’s second largest economy grew 6.6 percent last year, the Chinese government said on Monday — its most sedate pace in nearly three decades. The slowdown intensified in the last three months of 2018, and the official jobless rate increased to 4.9 percent last month from 4.8 percent in November.Economists tend to be skeptical about official data from Beijing, but there’s been an onslaught of evidence recently for weakness in the Chinese economy, brought on by crushing debt, a bitter trade fight with the U.S. and evolving business norms.Factory jobs are no longer desirable, leading manufacturers to try automation, according to the NYT. Ford Motor assembly plants in Chongqing are slowing production. Chinese exporters have delayed hiring plans.And China’s securities industry last year suffered its first annual decline in head count since 2014. Bonuses are likely to shrink, too.Officials around the world are sounding the alarm:• Cecilia Malmström, the European Union’s commissioner for trade, said that European investment in China was declining, because doing business there was “becoming increasingly complicated.”• Heng Swee Keat, the finance minister of Singapore, a nation heavily reliant on international trade, said at the World Economic Forum that trade friction between China and the U.S. could have a “very negative” effect on the global economy.• President Xi Jinping of China said on Monday that his Communist Party faced “sharp and serious dangers”:The party is facing long-term and complex tests in terms of maintaining long-term rule, reform and opening-up, a market-driven economy, and within the external environment.I.M.F. expects a ‘serious slowdown’The International Monetary Fund brought a chill to this week’s down-jacketed procession of world leaders, cutting its global economic growth forecasts.The fund expects weakness in Europe, a slowdown in China, a possible no-deal Brexit and trade spats sustained by the U.S. to lead to 3.5 percent growth in 2019 and 3.6 percent growth in 2020, down from October’s forecasts.“Risks are rising” after two years of “solid expansion,” said Christine Lagarde, its managing director. She added:“Does that mean a global recession is around the corner? No. But the risk of a sharper decline in global growth has certainly increased.”More on the global outlook:• The I.M.F. got a new chief economist this month: Gita Gopinath of Harvard, the first woman in the role. She issued warnings at Davos about China and Brexit.• Central banks are grappling with how to use verbal cues and other hints to signal their plans as conditions get tougher.• Some 30 percent of business leaders expect global expansion to slow — six times the number who felt that way a year ago, according to a survey from PricewaterhouseCoopers. It found 37 percent of North American executives optimistic, down from 63 percent last year.• But in what Matt Phillips called “a remarkable turnaround,” stocks have surged in the first few weeks of the year after a substantial plunge at the end of 2018. Buoyed by assurances from the Federal Reserve, it is the market’s best start to a year since 1987.Shutdown Day 32: Rejected proposals and old habitsAs a flash freeze arrived in the Midwest and the Northeast, the shutdown continued to weigh on the homeless, the elderly, veterans, low-income renters and many others.Democrats, who have refused to negotiate until the government is reopened, rejected a proposal from President Trump on Saturday to exchange temporary protections for some immigrants for $5.7 billion for a border wall. Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, called it “hostage taking.”In response, Mr. Trump complained that Speaker Nancy Pelosi has behaved “irrationally,” and then took a shot at San Francisco, which she represents. The bulk of Republican senators have fallen in line behind his proposal, and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, is said to be incorporating the terms into a broader package.Mr. Trump’s behavior feels familiar, write Russ Beuttner and Maggie Haberman:As he did during decades in business, Mr. Trump has insulted adversaries, undermined his aides, repeatedly changed course, extolled his primacy as a negotiator and induced chaos.More shutdown news:• Companies unable to finalize approval for initial public offerings are trying to move ahead with workarounds.• Hours before the shutdown began, Mr. Trump signed a bipartisan criminal justice bill. Implementation is likely to be delayed.• The stock market is one of Mr. Trump’s favorite indicators of his administration’s success. But at times, the going’s been bumpy.Brinkmanship over BrexitAfter her Brexit plan was defeated, Prime Minister Theresa May returned to Parliament yesterday with a Plan B. It looked a lot like Plan A, writes Stephen Castle, setting the stage for another battle with rebellious lawmakers.The proposal: Mrs. May promised to negotiate changes that many regard as cosmetic.The strategy: She appeared to double down on her gamble that lawmakers will eventually hold their noses and vote for her plan, rather than risk a no-deal Brexit or no Brexit at all.The response: Frustration. The process is more or less where it has been for months, with Mrs. May locked in a game of brinkmanship as the clock ticks down.More Brexit news: Britain’s main opposition party is backing a proposal that could open the door to a second referendum. The European Union is increasing its efforts to avoid market chaos if there’s no deal. Companies buying British assets are having to find financing in euros or dollars, if they can find it at all. Two trading platforms are moving out of London. There’s been violence in Northern Ireland. Britain’s statistics agency could find no evidence for a claim that Brexit is making food companies shrink their products. And the billionaire founder of the Citadel hedge fund spent nearly $123 million on a property near Buckingham Palace.Revolving DoorThe chairman of GlaxoSmithKline, Philip Hampton, will step down as the drugmaker breaks itself up. (FT)Peter Plumb, the chief executive of the food delivery app Just Eat, is departing. (FT)The speed readDeals• Two private equity firms are said to be preparing a joint bid of about $7 billion for Nestle’s skin health business. (Reuters)• Takeda Pharmaceutical may sell some emerging-market drugs to cut debt after its $62 billion takeover of Shire. (Bloomberg)• Patek Philippe, the 180-year-old Swiss watchmaker, could be sold for as much as $10 billion, analysts said. (Bloomberg)• OneWeb, the wireless broadband start-up backed by SoftBank and Virgin, plans to launch six satellites next month. (FT)Tech• France fined Google $57 million for breaching rules on warning users how it handles data. (NYT)• Amazon’s advertising business is now worth $125 billion, bigger than Nike or IBM. (NYT)• Tata Power wants to set up electric vehicle chargers in Delhi, one of the world’s most polluted cities. (Bloomberg)• As the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei has worked hard to win over Europeans, security concerns are undermining that. In response, its chief executive is becoming more willing to give interviews. (NYT, Reuters)• China’s mobile users accounted for 40 percent of the $101 billion spent globally on apps in 2018. (CNBC)Politics and policy• The Trump administration’s agreement to lift sanctions on the business empire of the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska would let him pay off substantial debts, a confidential document shows. (NYT)• Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, announced a presidential campaign. Here are some of her likely policy proposals. (NYT, WaPo)• BuzzFeed News faces scrutiny over a report that President Trump instructed Michael D. Cohen to lie to Congress, which prompted a rare denial from Robert Mueller, the special counsel. (NYT)Best of the rest• Neri Oxman, a professor at the M.I.T. Media Lab, and William Ackman, the chief executive of Pershing Square Capital Management, were married on Saturday. (NYT)• Investors are increasing their cash holdings at the fastest clip in a decade. (WSJ)• Several stock-price crashes have dinged the reputation of Hong Kong’s $3.8 trillion market, which has been seen as a Chinese exchange with Western-style safeguards. (WSJ)• Housing prices in Hong Kong have dropped recently, but for the ninth year in a row, the market is still the least affordable in the world. (FT)• “You,” a series about stalking, has become a hit on Netflix. A few months ago, when it was playing on Lifetime, few people had heard of it. (NYT)• J.C. Penney is struggling to avoid same the fate as Sears. And its turnaround strategy keeps changing. (WSJ)• The Swiss bank UBS recorded a profit increase in 2018, but missed analyst estimates because of struggles at its wealth management division. (CNBC)• A nameless, secretive traders’ club promises to let investors “make high-level trades not available to stupid amateurs.” Admission costs $25 million. (Bloomberg)• All internet gambling that involves interstate transactions, not just sports betting, is now illegal, the Justice Department says. (Bloomberg)• The United Nations-backed Green Climate Fund is struggling to regain credibility, raise money and find new leadership after a board meeting collapsed last summer. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Wednesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Good Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks in peril?Negotiations between Washington and Beijing seemed to be in a precarious place on Tuesday, after the FT reported that the Trump administration had canceled meetings with Chinese vice ministers.The officials had offered to come to Washington to prepare for meetings scheduled later this month between China’s trade czar, Liu He, and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, the FT said.Larry Kudlow, the head of the National Economic Council, denied the report to CNBC. He added that negotiations would only be successful if the Chinese honored their commitments:“Promises are great but enforcement is what we want — things like deadlines and timetables and full coverage of the various structural issues. Will this all be solved at the end of the month? I don’t know. I wouldn’t dare to predict.”China may agree to buy up to seven million tons of American wheat. But Chinese officials are reportedly chafing at U.S. requests for regular reviews of changes to their trade policies. And two influential American business groups still see reason to be unhappy, saying China is engaged in “a deep, concerted and continuing effort” to establish dominance in technologies such as robotics and electric vehicles.Beijing is also trying to play down Belt and Road, its vast infrastructure initiative spanning Asia, Europe and Africa: Senior government officials have avoided the topic at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the NYT reports.The effects of trade tensions continue to spread. The stock market started the year strong but sputtered on Tuesday. Japan’s exports last month sank the most in more than two years. Chinese finance officials promised more stimulus. Experts are predicting that “the good times are over” for American companies reliant on Chinese consumers.But not everyone is complaining: Lobbyists have enjoyed a surge of business from companies and trade groups hoping to influence the Trump administration’s tariff decisions. Indonesia’s doing all right, too: Its industry minister says it’s exporting more steel to the U.S. and also attracting Chinese textile and footwear companies.Other Chinese news: The founder of a Nanjing-based meat supplier, one of several Chinese executives at Hong Kong-listed companies who have mysteriously disappeared in recent years, returned to his family. Several Chinese companies are circling Japan’s largest operator of oyster restaurants.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________On Day 33 of the shutdown, some movementThe Senate descended from the spectator stands to plan two competing votes to fund the government on Thursday. One involves President Trump’s latest proposal: $5.7 billion for a border wall, now accompanied by temporary protections for certain immigrants. The other, from the Democrats, would open the government until Feb. 8.But neither is expected to draw the 60 votes needed to advance. This means that the Trump administration is likely to continue as a one-ring circus, focused on the wall to the exclusion of other presidential duties.Here are ways the shutdown is still straining the system:• Reserve security workers are being flown into airports, because as many as one in 10 transportation security officers are failing to show up for work.• Delays in reports about home sales, construction, trade and manufacturing threaten to create a data vacuum, just as the economy may be slowing down.• SNAP food stamps help feed some 40 million Americans. The Agriculture Department is still considering how to keep the program running after February.• The U.S. court system will need to close after Feb. 1 if the stalemate continues.And a sidelight on the wall proposal: Details disclosed at the trial of the drug lord known as El Chapo suggests it wouldn’t have inconvenienced him very much.A brave front in Davos masks fears of global downturnAnalysts and bankers at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, offered a glass-half-full attitude toward the global economy, saying it was weakening but not entering a recession. “We’re slowing, but we’re still growing,” said Philipp Hildebrand, vice chairman of the investment manager BlackRock.But behind the brave face, concerns of political paralysis, frayed trading partnerships and working-class resentment created a nervous atmosphere.Another theme was the growing discomfort with corporate influence over society. Nowhere was this tension greater than in the conversation around Big Tech. Optimism in official sessions appeared to be out of touch with the public’s concern about the technology’s disruptive effects on privacy and politics.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, made a surprise appearance and was seen with Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of Armenia. But talk was dominated by who wasn’t there, most notably President Trump.Instead, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil has been present to take up the populist mantle, the NYT’s Mark Landler writes, promising to root out corruption, roll back regulations and make his country a good place to do business:Mr. Bolsonaro’s keynote address set the tone for a Davos gathering shorn of its usual retinue of American and European leaders, wrestling with political forces, from Latin America to Europe, that are starkly at odds with this conference’s ethos of global cooperation and a liberal world order.Singapore: a haven for Brexit runaways?Dyson, the British appliances company founded by a vocal supporter of Brexit, swears that its decision to move to Singapore is not a reaction to Britain’s planned departure from the E.U.But with one proposed exit plan summarily rejected and the prospect of a delayed divorce, the temptation to jump ship to calmer, more business-friendly waters is growing.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, has asked for a parliamentary vote on whether to hold a second referendum on Brexit.Brexit could hit European consumers hard, Kasper Rorsted, the chief executive of the German sportswear maker Adidas, told CNBC. And the E.U. says trade rules would require a “hard border” between Ireland and British-controlled Northern Ireland if Britain leaves without a deal.Germany and France are still keen to show their commitment to a united Europe: Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron met on Tuesday to renew a 1963 treaty on the subject.Koch Industries backs metal-printing start-upDesktop Metal announced today that it had closed a $160 million funding round to expand the production of its office-friendly metal 3D-printing technology.The funding round was led by Koch Disruptive Technologies, the investing and innovation arm of Koch Industries, and brings Desktop Metal’s total investment to $438 million. In a news release, the company declared this to be the moment when 3D printing begins to disrupt traditional metal manufacturing.“We are at a critical juncture in the advancement of metal 3D printing and additive manufacturing,” said Ric Fulop, a co-founder and the chief executive of Desktop Metal, which is based in Burlington, Mass.The production system is the fastest metal printing press for mass production, the company said, and will begin shipping commercially in the first quarter of 2019.Revolving doorJustin Gmelich, chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs and one of the most senior executives in the bank’s fixed income business, is retiring. (FT)Bunge, the world’s largest oilseed processor, appointed Gregory Heckman acting chief executive, replacing Soren Schroder, who agreed to leave in December. (FT)The speed readDeals• Two activist hedge funds are calling on eBay to consider spinning off or selling StubHub and a classified-ad businesses. (WSJ)• Arconic said it would not sell itself to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management. (WSJ)• In its most significant move into streaming, the cable giant Viacom is paying $340 million for PlutoTV, an advertising-based service. (NYT)• Shares of PG&E surged after it said it had secured $5.5 billion in financing as it prepares to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (Reuters)• BAE Systems won a $474 million U.S. defense contract, the Pentagon said. (Reuters)Tech • The former Soviet republic of Georgia has been offering tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to lure cryptocurrency businesses. (NYT)• Tencent, the Chinese tech company, lost a third of its value last year. (FT)• IBM said its revenue fell 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter, better than analysts expected but still a sign of challenges ahead. (WSJ)• Japan Display, a supplier for Apple’s iPhone XR, is seeking a bailout from an investor group from China and Taiwan. (WSJ)• Silicon Valley start-ups and their investors fear the days of unchecked growth may be over. (WSJ)• Google and Facebook spent record amounts on lobbying governments last year. (Reuters)Politics and policy • President Trump has turned out to be the one thing that Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, can’t control. (NYT)• Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said he expected further progress in North Korea denuclearization talks, but acknowledged “an awful lot of work to do.” (Reuters)• The Supreme Court permitted the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while courts review the policy. (NYT)Best of the rest • 23andMe, the DNA testing company, said it had received regulatory approval to offer a test for a hereditary colorectal cancer syndrome. (Bloomberg)• How companies game their ratings on Glassdoor, a site that lets people review their employers. (WSJ)• Carl Rogberg, a former senior director of the supermarket chain Tesco, was acquitted today of fraud and false accounting charges. (Reuters)• Walgreens will pay $269.2 million to settle accusations that it improperly billed Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs for more than a decade. (Reuters)• McKinsey has been repeatedly accused of misconduct in bankruptcy cases, most recently in a case that could cost it tens of millions of dollars in returned fees. (NYT)• Home sales fell last month to their lowest level since 2015, pressured by stock market volatility, the government shutdown and higher interest rates. (WSJ)• BlackRock is planning a money-market fund that will invest primarily in debt from environmentally conscious issuers. (Reuters)• A spate of quarterly earnings this week from industrial and technology companies could disrupt the relative calm in the stock market. (WSJ)• Construction is set to start on a $500 billion futuristic city in Saudi Arabia’s Neom Bay, financed by the government, its sovereign wealth fund and local and international investors. (Bloomberg)• Production at Subaru’s only car factory in Japan could be shut down for nearly two weeks to fix a suspected defect in a single part. (Reuters)• Eric Salama, the chief executive of the marketing firm Kantar, is recovering after being stabbed in an attempted carjacking in London. (Bloomberg)• The cost of insulin for treating type 1 diabetes nearly doubled over five years in the U.S. (Reuters)• The Labor Department accused Oracle of wage discrimination by funneling women and minorities into lower-paying roles and setting their initial pay based on prior salary. (CNBC)• The Federal Reserve is beginning to examine how Deutsche Bank handled billions of dollars in suspect transactions from Denmark’s leading lender. (Bloomberg)• To survive a pilot shortage, airlines are doubling starting salaries and recruiting from military helicopter crews. (Reuters)• The pharmaceutical industry’s main trade group spent a record $27.5 million on lobbying last year. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.WASHINGTON — In suspending its previous plans to continue raising rates this year, the Federal Reserve signaled that its march toward higher interest rates may be ending sooner than expected.The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said economic growth remained “solid” and the central bank expected growth to continue. But in a sharp reversal of the Fed’s stance just six week ago, Mr. Powell said the Fed had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again.“The case for raising rates has weakened somewhat,” Mr. Powell said, pointing to sluggish inflation, slowing growth in Europe and China, and the possibility of another federal government shutdown.“My colleagues and I have one overarching goal,” Mr. Powell said at a news conference on Wednesday after a two-day meeting of the Fed’s policymaking committee, “to sustain the economic expansion.”The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at its first meeting of 2019, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, may stay put for some time.Investors expressed their enthusiasm around the globe early Thursday. Major Asian markets like Japan and Hong Kong rose by about 1 percent, and European stocks opened higher. Futures markets that try to predict stock performances indicated Wall Street would open higher too.On Wednesday, the S&P 500-stock index climbed sharply after the Fed announcement and ended the day up 1.55 percent. Yields on shorter-term Treasury securities, which are heavily influenced by Fed policy, declined as investors concluded that any near-term interest rate increases were off the table.The Fed’s newfound caution is likely to delight President Trump, who argued loudly and publicly through much of 2018 that the Fed should stop raising its benchmark rate, which he said would snuff out the economic expansion. While the president did not address the Fed’s decision directly, he wrote on Twitter: “Dow just broke 25,000. Tremendous news!”Some on the other side of the political spectrum also supported the Fed’s move, saying the slow pace of inflation allowed the Fed to refrain from raising rates, so that job and wage growth could continue.Jared Bernstein, an economist at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, summarized the Fed’s new policy stance as “Don’t just do something, stand there!” He added that the new approach “seems right to me.” Mr. Bernstein said domestic growth was under pressure from tighter financial conditions, the slowdown in global growth and what he called “Trumpian chaos.”“Tightening under these conditions would be unnecessary roughness,” he said.For the last several years, the Fed said consistently that it planned to keep raising interest rates. The pace was uncertain, but the direction was clear. Wednesday’s statement omitted previous language indicating that “some further gradual increases” would be warranted. Instead, it said the Fed would be “patient” in evaluating the health of the economy. And it suggested the Fed stood ready either to raise or to cut rates, depending on economic conditions.Reinforcing this more cautious tone, the Fed also announced in a separate statement that it was prepared to slow or even reverse the steady slimming of its bond portfolio. This, too, was a striking shift. The Fed said in December that it was committed to steadily reducing its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, which it amassed during the financial crisis to help bolster the economy.The Fed’s policymaking committee voted unanimously for the changes.Fed officials had signaled the shift in their thinking in recent weeks, aligning on the theme of patience with unusual consistency, leaving little doubt of their intentions.Still, the strength of the shift caught analysts and investors by surprise, particularly given Mr. Powell’s more hawkish comments at the end of last year.While the Fed is pausing for now, Mr. Powell said he believed the central bank had raised rates to an appropriate level and had not overtightened. “I think our policy stance today is appropriate for the state of the economy,” he said. “That’s my feeling.”Mr. Powell did not directly address how long the Fed planned to remain patient but suggested any future rate increases would depend largely on signs of inflation, which has consistently fallen below the Fed’s 2 percent target.“I would want to see a need for further rate increases, and for me a big part of that would be inflation,” he said.Brian Coulton, chief economist at Fitch Ratings, said he expected economic growth to continue and therefore he expected the Fed to resume rate increases this year. “This reads more like a pause than a strong signal that they believe that they are the end of the hiking cycle,” Mr. Coulton said. “Barring a very significant global downturn, we still see further rate increases later this year.”Others, however, said the Fed may well have raised rates for the last time during the current economic expansion. “It does feel like the top of the cycle,” said Tim Duy, an economist at the University of Oregon who follows the central bank closely. “With the economy poised to slow over the next year, the Fed is not interested in risking turning that slowdown into a recession.”The shift left some Fed watchers puzzling over why the central bank had reversed course so quickly.In early October, Mr. Powell described the Fed’s benchmark interest rate as “a long way from neutral.” The comment was read by markets as implying that the Fed planned to continue raising rates for some time.Mr. Powell sought to soften that impression in subsequent public appearances. After the Fed raised the benchmark rate by a quarter point at its December meeting, Mr. Powell said that the rate was at the lower end of what Fed officials consider the neutral zone: the region in which rates would neither stimulate nor restrain the economy. That implied the Fed was closer to pausing.But Mr. Powell still said the Fed expected to keep raising its benchmark interest rate. And the Fed released projections showing most of its officials predicted at least two rate increases in 2019.In his opening remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Powell said that the change in the Fed’s plans did not reflect “a major shift in the baseline outlook for the economy.” But he struggled to explain the Fed’s reasoning, suggesting later in the news conference that the outlook for growth had soured. He pointed to problems including tightening financial conditions, weak global growth and the government shutdown.One point he made insistently was that the Fed was not taking its cues from Mr. Trump, despite the president’s constant heckling. “We’re human,” Mr. Powell said. “We make mistakes. But we’re not going to make mistakes of character or integrity.”The Fed on Wednesday also sought to clarify its plans for its giant stockpile of Treasuries and mortgage bonds it accumulated in the wake of the financial crisis. A decade ago, the central bank tried to revive economic activity and reduce borrowing costs for things like cars and mortgages by cutting its benchmark interest rate nearly to zero, and by vacuuming up huge quantities of bonds.The Fed’s bond-buying program was intended to encourage investors to buy riskier assets, like stocks and corporate bonds, by driving up the price of safer securities, like Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. The Fed’s enormous purchases drove down interest rates because, as competition for available Treasuries increased, buyers were forced to accept lower rates of return.As the economy recovered, the Fed decided to take away that crutch and since the fall of 2017, it has gradually reduced its holdings at a pace of about $45 billion per month. But the Fed said on Wednesday that it planned to stop relatively soon, maintaining a much larger presence in the bond market than it did before the 2008 crisis.The decision has limited implications for the general public. Some Fed officials and outside experts think that the new approach has improved the Fed’s ability to influence economic conditions, like interest rates, but the practical difference is generally regarded as modest.But it is a big deal for bond markets. The Fed is the world’s largest investor, and even small changes in Fed policy make large ripples. The decision was applauded by some investors, who argue that the Fed’s withdrawal from the bond market is contributing to the volatility of asset prices. Other investors, however, want the Fed to minimize its profile in the bond market.In a final bow to markets, the Fed emphasized its plans were subject to change.“The committee is prepared to adjust any of the details for completing the balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments,” the statement said. It added the Fed was even willing to increase the size of the balance sheet, if necessary.One by one, the concerns that have hung over the stock market have faded. Fears that the United States economy would dip into a recession this year have eased. The Federal Reserve seems to be finished raising interest rates for the foreseeable future, and optimism has increased that the United States and China could end their trade war.But if the January snap back (it was the best start to a year for stocks in decades, after the worst December for stocks in an even longer period) is to sustain itself, big technology companies likely will have to lead the way. So far this year, they have not done that. For much of the past decade, the fate of the stock market has been tied to the performance of a handful of the largest tech companies: Amazon, Apple, Alphabet, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix led the market from one record to the next.By the end of August, their sway over the direction of the S&P 500 exceeded all but two of the index’s 11 sector groupings. As the index pushed to a record high last summer, the rise in those six companies’ shares accounted for half of its gain. They led on the way down too, dragging the broader market lower over the final three months of 2018 and nearly ending the longest bull market on record.So it’s notable, then, that as the S&P 500 rallied nearly 8 percent in January, the big technology stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the benchmark’s rise, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices. What happened? The companies have faced a fundamental question since late last year: Could they continue to pull in new users and generate more sales in a slowing global economy? Sales growth had begun to slow in the second half of 2018 and earnings updates in January haven’t fully resolved investors’ concerns about their trajectory. “This is the first quarter in my memory that technology has on the whole had worse metrics than the S&P 500,” said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute, referring to the earnings and revenue growth rate of big technology companies.After Apple warned of diminishing demand for new iPhones in China earlier this year, its forecast for the current quarter wasn’t as dire as many on Wall Street had feared. The stock has gained 7.7 percent since then. Still, the iPhone maker reported a 15 percent drop in revenue, including a 27 percent decline in China, and its results indicated a difficult road ahead. Its stock remains nearly 30 percent below its peak.Amazon reported record profits and revenue. But its shares were down 5.4 percent Friday in part because revenue from online shopping slowed and the growth of Prime memberships appeared to have plateaued.Microsoft shares have fallen 3.4 percent since it reported on Wednesday. Revenue at the software giant has surged in recent years as its bet on cloud computing has paid off, but there were continued signs that that acceleration could be tapering off.Facebook, whose shares were the most battered among the big tech companies last year, was perhaps the bright spot this earnings season. Despite a string of scandals, the social network generated record revenue and profit last year. Its shares have jumped 10.5 percent since Wednesday.Netflix also said revenue would grow more slowly this quarter. Its stock is down almost 3.8 percent since it reported on Jan. 17.There is a big caveat to all the hand-wringing about slowing growth: All five companies still generate huge revenue. And should Beijing and Washington reach an agreement in the trade war, sales could pick up if the global economy, particularly China’s, begins to gain speed. “There was real concern that tech was the canary in the coal mine of what would be a very dark 2019,” said Daniel Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities covering technology companies. “Thus far a lot of those fears are proving overblown. That could set the stage for tech to make new highs this year, depending on what happens with China.”Good Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A ‘chip dip’ threatens Big Tech’s cloutFrom Apple to Nvidia, tech companies say that business is slowing. What’s happening?Big tech companies are reporting lackluster results. Weak Chinese consumer demand blew a $9 billion hole in Apple’s latest quarterly sales. Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations. Intel’s January financials didn’t meet forecasts. And Samsung’s sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter.Behind the trend: semiconductors. “China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand,” write David Streitfeld and Don Clark of the NYT. With chip manufacturers predicting slumping sales for 2019, tech more generally could be in line for a slowdown.Sound familiar? “The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust,” write Mr. Streitfeld and Mr. Clark.And the industry no longer carries the stock market. For years, stock market performance have been tied to the fortunes of the largest tech companies: Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix. As the S&P 500 pushed to a record high last summer, rises in those six companies’ share prices accounted for half of its gain. But when the index rallied nearly 8 percent in January, Stephen Grocer writes, their stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the rise.Lloyd Blankfein may pay for Goldman’s links to 1MDBThe former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. — as well as his successor, David Solomon, and other top executives — may have to give back some compensation from 2018, depending on the findings of an investigation into the firm’s work with the scandal-ridden Malaysian investment fund 1MDB.The announcement, made in a regulatory filing on Friday, shows how seriously Goldman is treating any role it may have had in fraud committed at 1MDB. Prosecutors in the U.S. and Malaysia are leading criminal investigations into 1MDB, and a former top deal maker at the firm has pleaded guilty to bribery, conspiracy and money laundering charges. Goldman says it’s cooperating with authorities.The WSJ calculates that Mr. Blankfein, who stepped down as chief executive of Goldman last year, might lose millions. And though Mr. Solomon wasn’t a top-ranking Goldman executive at the time, he could see some of his $23 million pay for last year clawed back as well. (Gary Cohn, who was Goldman’s No. 2 during the 1MDB work and received a lump payout when he left the firm in 2017, wouldn’t be affected.)In lighter Goldman news: Mr. Solomon, whose side hustle is DJing as DJ D-Sol, has released his second single, “Feel Alive.”Deutsche Bank refused Trump a loan in 2016For two decades, Deutsche Bank was the only major lender to give Donald Trump money, helping him finance his real estate operations. But when he sought a loan in early 2016 to help pay for a Scottish golf course — all while running for president — the German lender said no.More from David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Ben Protess of the NYT:Senior officials at the bank, including its future chief executive, believed that Mr. Trump’s divisive candidacy made such a loan too risky, the people said. Among their concerns was that if Mr. Trump won the election and then defaulted, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between not collecting on the debt or seizing the assets of the president of the United States.What’s next: Expect House Democrats to include this in their investigation of Mr. Trump’s finances.More Deutsche Bank news: The lender reportedly scrambled to rid itself of a $600 million loan made to VTB, a Russian state-owned bank, in late 2016 as the German bank sought to reduce its exposure to Russian entities.How an S.U.V. became a Brexit warning signThe automaker Nissan confirmed yesterday that it had abandoned plans to build its new X-Trail sport utility vehicle in Britain and said that the car would be produced solely in Japan. It’s a blow for the British economy, and a clear signal that uncertainty over Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. is weighing on corporate minds.A clear culprit. “The continued uncertainty around the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. is not helping companies like ours to plan for the future,” Nissan’s Europe chairman, Gianluca de Ficchy, said in a statement. Greg Clark, Britain’s business secretary, told the FT that it was “a warning sign” about how much damage could be caused by a no-deal Brexit.Nissan is not alone. British C.F.O.s say that Brexit is currently the largest threat to their businesses. Some 78 percent of those surveyed said that the business environment in the nation would deteriorate if Britain left the E.U.What now? Prime Minister Theresa May is set to return to Brussels in the coming days in an attempt to redraft her Brexit deal. In the meantime, Bloomberg reports that she “will launch a new government working group intended to unite the feuding pro- and anti-Brexit factions” in her party.The oil field that made American oil greatThe U.S. is now the top oil producer in the world, able to sway petroleum prices and breezily sanction Iran and Venezuela. The reason, as Cliff Krauss of the NYT notes: the Permian Basin, the heart of America’s shale industry.How big is it? It covers the same area as South Dakota, and produces four million barrels of oil a day — making it a bigger generator of oil than any member of OPEC other than Iraq and Saudi Arabia.What makes it special? It’s huge and rich in oil rather than in less-valuable natural gas. And it’s close to refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.What could go wrong? Oil companies there might pump too much, drawing ire from OPEC. As Scott Sheffield, the chairman of Pioneer Natural Resources, told the NYT: “You could have another price war.” And U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan crude could hurt American refineries, which can’t rely solely on the Permian.Hungry for ‘executive time’ in your calendar? Study Trump’s schedule and weepAxios has published almost three months of President Trump’s schedules after they were leaked, reportedly by somebody in the White House. Some highlights:• “Trump has spent around 60 percent of his scheduled time over the past three months in unstructured ‘Executive Time.’ ”• “He spends his mornings in the residence, watching TV, reading the papers, and responding to what he sees and reads by phoning aides, members of Congress, friends, administration officials and informal advisers,” six people with direct knowledge of his schedule told Axios.• “Trump’s first meeting of the day — usually around 11 or 11:30 a.m. — is often an intelligence briefing or a 30-minute meeting with the chief of staff.”• “The president sometimes has meetings during Executive Time that he doesn’t want most West Wing staff to know about for fear of leaks. And his mornings sometimes include calls with heads of state, political meetings and meetings with counsel in the residence, which aren’t captured on these schedules.”Bonus: Axios also compared the schedules with those of Mr. Trump’s predecessors. He appears to share most in common with Bill Clinton’s early days in office.2019’s Super Bowl ads: nostalgia, wokeness and depressing techO.K., so the game itself may have been a slog to watch, and the halftime show was forgettable. But for those of you who came for the ads, here are the themes that dominated — to the tune of $5.2 million per 30 seconds of airtime.The ’90s: Stella Artois featured Carrie Bradshaw from “Sex and the City” and the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Doritos put the Backstreet Boys front and center.Social consciousness: The dating app Bumble hired Serena Williams to urge women to “make the first move” in all parts of their lives. And Budweiser touted renewable energy in an ad featuring a cute dog.The downsides of tech: Olay’s spot showed the actress Sarah Michelle Gellar struggling to save herself from a home intruder when her phone’s facial-recognition software fails. An ad for Pringles featured a smart speaker bemoaning its existence. And TurboTax built an ad around a robot boy craving a late-night snack.Revolving doorApple reportedly removed Bill Stasior as the head of its Siri virtual assistant unit, though he remains at the company.Gianni Infantino is poised to win a second term as president of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body.SoftBank of Japan hired Sarah Lubman, most recently a partner at the Brunswick Group, as a partner in corporate communications.The speed readDeals• Spotify is said to be in talks to buy the podcasting company Gimlet Media. (NYT)• The drug companies Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene will pay about $304 million in fees to their investment banks for arranging their $74 billion union. (FT)• KKR is said to be weighing a sale of the chip-making equipment unit of Hitachi Kokusai. (FT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund is in talks to invest up to $1.5 billion in Guazi.com, a Chinese used-car sales platform. (Reuters)• Maoyan Entertainment, a Chinese movie-ticket giant, fell 2.7 percent in its Hong Kong stock debut on Monday, the latest flubbed I.P.O. by a Chinese tech company. (Reuters)Politics and policy• The senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders have proposed limiting corporate stock buybacks. (NYT Op-Ed)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, reintroduced legislation aimed at strengthening enforcement of antitrust laws. (Reuters)• Michael Bloomberg is said to be reconsidering running for president as Democratic primary voters appear to be favoring more liberal contenders. (Axios)• President Trump declined to commit to making public any final report by the special prosecutor Robert Mueller. (NYT)Trade• Chinese state-owned firms bought a million tons of American soybeans on Friday, a day after talks on a trade deal between Beijing and Washington yielded progress. (NYT)• Despite a possible U.S.-China agreement, global trade continues to suffer. (WSJ)• European investment funds are worried about their ability to trade dual-listed stocks like those of Unilever and Shell if Britain leaves the E.U. without a deal. (FT)Tech• Venture capitalists are telling start-ups to stockpile cash ahead of a potential economic slowdown. (FT)• Meet the man behind the egg picture that became Instagram’s most-liked image. Surprise: He works in advertising. (NYT)• Cisco wants a U.S. version of Europe’s strict new data privacy rules. (FT)• How lawmakers plan to update tech in Congress — including its 2000-era internet connections. (WSJ)• Foxconn said it was still committed to building a factory in Wisconsin. (NYT)• It’s not just you: Captchas — which you complete to prove you’re not a robot — have gotten far harder. (Verge)Best of the rest• Vice Media plans to lay off 250 workers. Here’s what went wrong for the company and for other digital news organizations like BuzzFeed. (FT, NYT)• McKinsey advised the maker of OxyContin on how to “turbocharge” opioid sales, a lawsuit alleges. (NYT)• Why taxing the wealthy is so hard. (NYT)• Gains from President Trump’s corporate tax cuts aren’t as impressive as they first appeared. (WSJ)• How China got MSCI to add its market to one of the world’s best-known global benchmarks. (WSJ)• Ikea plans to test furniture leasing. (FT)• Hershey blames manufacturing processes for missing tips on its Kisses. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Slack, a workplace messaging company, said Monday that it had confidentially filed paperwork for an initial public offering, joining the growing number of technology start-ups heading to the stock market.Slack, which is based in San Francisco, gave no details about the offering’s timing and said it was awaiting a standard review of its paperwork by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The move was expected given that Slack’s chief executive, Stewart Butterfield, had long indicated that he planned to take the company public. Slack recently hired Goldman Sachs to lead the offering.Slack’s confidential filing comes amid a rush by privately held companies to go public this year. Many of these start-ups, which have been highly valued by private investors, are part of a generation of technology companies known as unicorns. Public share sales by the companies are expected to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley for entrepreneurs and venture capital investors.In December, the ride-hailing companies Uber and Lyft filed confidential paperwork for their own public offerings. Their efforts stalled temporarily last month when a government shutdown hampered the S.E.C.’s ability to review the companies’ registration documents. Other tech companies expected to go public this year include the online scrapbooking firm Pinterest.Slack declined to comment beyond its statement about the confidential filing.There is likely to be a strong demand for Slack stock. The company was valued at $7.1 billion by private investors last year, but in recent weeks investment firms have offered to buy its shares at a price that values Slack at $13 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the details who was not authorized to speak publicly.Slack also plans an unusual form of public offering called a direct listing, the person added. Unlike most I.P.O.s, in which firms sell stock to public market investors in advance, direct listings let a company begin trading its shares on an exchange without raising new funds. Spotify, a provider of streaming music, went public in 2018 in a direct listing, paving the way for other high-profile start-ups to follow.With a direct listing, shareholders can also sell their stock immediately after the public offering, instead of waiting for what is known as a lockup period to expire.Slack has little need for cash. It raised $427 million in new financing in August, a year after raising $250 million. The company has collected a total of more than $1 billion from investors that include the SoftBank Vision Fund, General Atlantic, Dragoneer Investment Group and T. Rowe Price Associates.Mr. Butterfield began Slack out of a gaming start-up, Tiny Speck. While the company’s game products failed to take off, its internal communication tool showed promise. In 2014, the company began selling that communication tool, called Slack.Start-ups quickly adopted Slack, and larger companies followed suit. The company offers free and paid versions of Slack and counts more than 85,000 paying customers, including 65 Fortune 100 companies. Last month, Slack said 10 million people now used its product every day. The company generated more than $350 million in revenue last year, said the person with knowledge of the details.Some companies that have filed to go public have never reached that finish line. Over the last year, a number of high-profile business software companies that took steps to go public were snapped up by a tech giant at the last minute. In November, for example, Qualtrics, an analytics start-up, sold to SAP for $8 billion just days before it was set to ring the opening bell at Nasdaq.Google, Microsoft and Amazon have previously expressed interest in acquiring Slack, but the company has demurred. Now some of them have increasingly begun to compete with the start-up. When Microsoft introduced its own workplace messaging company, Microsoft Teams, in 2016, Slack took out a newspaper ad directed at its new competitor.“We’re genuinely excited to have some competition,” it read.In January, Microsoft announced that 420,000 organizations used its Teams product, including 89 of the Fortune 100.Once again, the Federal Reserve has upended markets.Investors had been bracing for the Fed to keep raising interest rates and shrinking its vast portfolio of assets, the equivalent of tapping on the brakes of the United States economy. But this year, the central bank has signaled that it was backing off.Much has been written about the stock market’s joyful reaction to the Fed’s altered approach. But the impact was much broader than that. The central bank’s shift cascaded through markets around the world in ways large and small. Here’s a look at the consequences of the Fed’s new tone.StocksThe Fed’s change of heart helped halt and partly reverse December’s brutal stock sell-off. On Dec. 24, the S&P 500 was down nearly 20 percent from its recent high. After the Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, began on Jan. 4 to espouse the virtues of patience and flexibility, the market turned sharply higher. The S&P 500 is now up about 15 percent from its nadir in December. Stocks of companies that are sensitive to changes in interest rates have climbed at especially speedy clips. Shares of homebuilders, for example, are up more than 17 percent since the market low in December. That suggests the Fed’s shift has been a big reason for the market’s recent pop. “I think the Fed’s turnaround has been vital to the recovery that we’ve seen in equity markets,” said Tony Roth, chief investment officer at the wealth management firm Wilmington Trust. BondsIn December, stress started to build in the market for corporate bonds. Investors balked at putting money in anything other than super-safe government bonds. One sign of this was a widening of “credits spreads” — the difference between the relatively low yields on government bonds and the relatively high yields on corporate bonds. Since Jan. 4, when the Fed’s swivel began, those credit spreads have fallen sharply. That is largely because the yields on corporate bonds have declined, while those on government debt have barely budged. A big reason for the drop in corporate bond yields is that investors have greater confidence in the United States economy and the ability of American companies to remain financially healthy.Currencies One way to think about the short-term interest rates that the Fed sets is that they are the rates at which investors — or even people with savings accounts or certificates of deposits — get paid for holding American dollars. When the Fed raises rates, and other central banks don’t, those higher United States rates attract capital from around the world. The influx of money pushes up the value of the dollar relative to other currencies. Last year, as the Fed raised interest rates four times and appeared ready to continue in 2019, the dollar rose about 10 percent relative to the euro and other major currencies. The rising value of the dollar has big implications. It makes American manufactured goods more expensive, and therefore less competitive, on the world market. It depresses the overseas earnings of American companies when they get converted back into dollars. And it reduces the prices of commodities, many of which are priced in dollars on global markets. (All else being equal, if the dollar’s value rises, you need fewer dollars to buy the same barrel of oil or ton of iron ore.) The rise in the value of the dollar, along with a supply glut in the world’s oil market, helped push crude oil prices down by more than 40 percent from October to the end of December.When the Fed signaled that it was backing off further rate increases, that slowed the upward momentum of the dollar. In fact, it appeared to put a ceiling on the dollar’s rise, at least for now. That, in turn, is likely to help American companies and strengthen commodity prices. Crude oil prices are up 16 percent in 2019.Emerging MarketsA weaker dollar is also a boon to emerging markets, whose economies often rely on exporting commodities and borrowing money from foreign investors. The weak dollar helps on both counts. With higher commodity prices, it becomes easier for commodity-producing countries and companies to pay off loans, which foreign investors often require to be repaid in dollars. This is a reversal of the 2018 trend, in which the strong dollar provoked a run on emerging markets like Turkey and Argentina, causing the value of their currencies to drop. Money now is flooding back to those developing economies, propelling stock markets in Turkey, Russia and Brazil.The FutureThe question is how durable this relief rally will prove. Even with the Fed’s pro-economic-growth stance, there are plenty of remaining risks to the global economy — and therefore to financial markets. Chief among those is the possibility that huge economies in China, Japan and Germany sputter.“The Fed has applied a Band-Aid onto a broken arm,” said Frances Donald, head of macroeconomic strategy at asset manager Manulife in Toronto. “This is enough to give us a moment to alleviate our worst concerns. But it doesn’t solve the underlying problem, which is a sizable growth slowdown.”Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Within minutes of the stock market’s opening trades on Tuesday, Apple had reclaimed the title of most valuable American company for the first time in more than two months.By around midday, Microsoft had taken back the top spot. And so the day went, the two tech titans going back and forth, until trading ended with Microsoft the leader at a market value of $823 billion.The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year. The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results. And Alphabet (Google’s parent company) has lurked not far behind the whole time.The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years. Apple passed Exxon Mobil to become the most valuable company in the United States almost eight years ago, and after 2012 it held on, largely unchallenged, for six years.The company’s ascension was a precursor to Big Tech’s takeover of the stock market. Investors scooped up shares of the largest tech companies, believing their sales growth was unassailable, and by the second half of 2016, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet and Apple were the five most valuable companies in the S&P 500.But investors’ faith in Big Tech began to weaken last year. Apple fell hard as signs of a mature mobile phone market, a softening global economy and a trade war between China and the United States raised doubts about the company’s ability to sell more iPhones.Nearly $450 billion was wiped off its market value — an amount greater than all but six companies in the S&P 500.Shares of the other tech titans fell as well. But Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet have fared far better than Apple and the broader market over the past year, as bets by the first two — and, to a lesser extent, by Alphabet — on cloud computing drove a surge in revenue.Microsoft and Apple, which has recovered some of its losses since it reported earnings last week, are both valued at a little more than $820 billion. Behind them are Amazon, at $815 billion, and Alphabet, at $797 billion.In fifth place is Warren E. Buffett’s investment conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway. But with a market value of $511 billion, it is far behind.Late last month, chip giant Advanced Micro Devices reported disappointing financial results for the fourth quarter and warned that its first-quarter performance would be weaker than expected. The stock surged 20 percent.A couple of days later, General Electric reported one of its skimpiest quarterly profits of the century, badly missing analysts’ forecasts. The company’s stock posted its biggest jump in nearly a decade.In recent weeks, numerous companies — including Wynn Resorts, Ford and JPMorgan Chase — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally. Corporate America — and its shareholders — are the beneficiaries of a sudden improvement in the markets’ mood in the past two months. And that new optimism could keep propelling stocks higher, analysts said. With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.The outlook was much gloomier in December. At the end of last year, the prospect of a trade war, higher interest rates, a slowing global economy and political dysfunction soured Wall Street’s attitude. Investors dumped shares at the faintest whiff of tougher times ahead.Now, they’re buying even though corporate earnings have been relatively weak, with fewer companies beating Wall Street expectations than in recent quarters. The S&P 500 is up roughly 5 percent since companies started reporting results in middle of January. Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade, according to data from Bespoke Investment Group, a stock market research firm. “The market is being unbelievably kind,” said Jonathan Golub, chief United States equity strategist at Credit Suisse.The dynamic has also been a boon for companies whose financial results missed the mark. In recent years, the shares of companies whose profits or sales numbers didn’t beat Wall Street’s expectations lagged behind the broader market by 3.5 percentage points in the trading day that followed. This year, they have trailed by only 1.1 percentage points, according to analysis from Credit Suisse.Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon. That’s been bolstered by the Fed’s recent shift to a wait-and-see approach on future interest rate increases.Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed. “I would say the market is still pricing in flat-to-negative earnings growth,” said Binky Chadha, chief U.S. equity and global strategist at Deutsche Bank in New York. “So we basically see room for the relief rally to continue.”At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results. Advanced Micro Devices’ results were weighed down by sluggish sales of graphics-processing chips designed for consumer products, a further indication that Chinese consumers have pulled back on tech spending. The same Chinese slowdown hurt Ford’s results, which fell just short of Wall Street expectations. “The industry really fell off very, very sharply,” said Robert Shanks, the automaker’s chief financial officer. The company’s shares rose 3 percent. William H. Gross, the “Bond King,” is going into retirement.Mr. Gross, who co-founded the investment firm Pimco in 1971 and built it into a $2 trillion colossus, entertained investors with quirky pronouncements over many decades. He left unceremoniously in a nasty dispute in 2014, and joined Janus Henderson Investments, which announced his retirement on Monday.“I’ve had a wonderful ride for over 40 years in my career,” he said in a statement, “trying at all times to put client interests first while inventing and reinventing active bond management along the way.”At Pimco, Mr. Gross controlled more bond money than anyone in the world. He advised the Treasury on the role of subprime mortgage bonds in the dark days of the financial crisis, and his colorful metaphors often enlivened the otherwise dreary discourse about fixed-income investing.In 2011, for example, he told me that investors were like complacent frogs sitting in a pot of slowly heating water.“Bond investors are receiving almost nothing for their money, and the situation is getting worse and worse,” he said. “But they’ve gotten used to it. They don’t realize how bad it is. And before they know it, well, they’ll be cooked.”His utterances in those days often moved markets, and his early-morning yoga ritual at Newport Beach, Calif., was widely chronicled.Early in his tenure at Pimco, Mr. Gross was known as a skillful bond trader who pioneered the use of mathematical models to eke out steady profits. He also gained fame as an analyst of broad economic trends, which he used to inform the firm’s investment strategy.He had a homespun style that he used in books aimed at a popular audience, like “Everything You’ve Heard About Investing Is Wrong!: How to Profit in the Coming Post-Bull Markets.” In that 1997 book, he said the solid returns produced by bonds would shield investors from the disappointments of the busts that inevitably followed boom markets in stocks.But Mr. Gross has not been a dominant figure in finance since he was forced out of Pimco amid accusations that he had mismanaged the firm, where he was a co-chief investment officer. Mr. Gross and Pimco settled a lawsuit over the dispute in 2017.While he set high expectations for himself, his second career at Janus Henderson was not impressive.In a 2016 interview with The New York Times, he said explicitly that he viewed himself as competing directly with the fund managers at Pimco. “My whole evening is dependent on whether I beat them,” he said. “You see, I have to prove it all over again. Every day.”Yet a quick look at the numbers suggests he may have been disheartened by his recent performance. Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained.Through most of Mr. Gross’s time at Pimco, however, his performance was splendid. In the 15 years through February 2014, for example, Pimco Total Return posted an annualized gain of 6.68 percent, versus 5.19 percent for the average intermediate-term bond fund. And his risk-adjusted returns over the long term were much better than average.Over the past 20 years, Janus Henderson said, Mr. Gross had donated $800 million to various philanthropies. He will continue to manage his own assets, which are considerable, and those of his family foundation, which is valued at $390 million.Although he was often revered as something of an oracle in his years at Pimco, his frequent pronouncements on the state of the markets and the economy were not always on the mark, even in his heyday.In May 2009, when the stock market was just entering a bull market that has lasted nearly 10 years, Mr. Gross told me that the market rested on precarious foundations. He warned against “jumping into a stock market that’s 35 percent higher than it was three months ago.”He predicted moderate “single-digit returns” for the next decade, well short of the double-digit returns that stock investors actually received.Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Breaking down the speechIn his 82-minute address last night, President Trump cited U.S. economic growth and his efforts to keep it up, while attacking opponents in a speech that ostensibly called for unity in Washington. Here are the highlights for the business world:Mr. Trump defended his economic record. He took credit for America’s robust economic health — a key message for his 2020 re-election campaign — and assailed critiques of his administration’s efforts, including tax cuts and loosened regulations. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations,” he said.He kept pressure on China. Mr. Trump promoted his administration’s trade battle with Beijing, saying, “We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end.” Talks between Washington and Beijing over a compromise are continuing.And he painted his potential rivals as socialists. As Democratic presidential contenders promote policies like Medicare for all, Mr. Trump tried to paint them as peddlers of dangerous ideas. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said.What didn’t he talk about? “Trump’s speech was notable for what he did not mention, including the ballooning federal debt, once a centerpiece of the Republican agenda; nor did he talk about Social Security, Medicare or other entitlements,” Philip Rucker and Toluse Olorunnipa of the WaPo write. Democrats fought back. Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for Georgia’s governorship last year, focused on “outlining the party’s vision for lower health care costs and a more inclusive immigration policy, and pressing her case that access to the voting booth should be easier, not harder.”Goldman may shrink its onetime trading powerhouseSteep cuts could hit Goldman Sachs’s commodities arm, which once generated huge profits for the firm, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.What may happen: “Executives are discussing pulling back from trading iron ore, platinum and other metals, and are ordering cost cuts to the sprawling logistics network that handles the transport and storage of physical commodities,” Ms. Hoffman writes.The context: The business was once one of Wall Street’s most envied money makers. But such trading has suffered in recent years, thanks to changing markets and tighter regulations. And Goldman’s current C.E.O., David Solomon, cut his teeth as an investment banker and is focused on operations like lending and asset management.The symbolism: “By taking a knife to the business, Mr. Solomon is sending a message down the ranks that nothing is sacred,” Ms. Hoffman writes.Why are stocks rising on mediocre earnings?In recent weeks, several companies — including Ford, G.E., JPMorgan Chase and Wynn Resorts — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally, writes Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade.”• “With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.”• “Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon.”• “Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed.”• “At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results.”A peek inside Wisconsin’s disastrous deal with FoxconnWhen the Chinese electronics manufacturer Foxconn decided to set up shop in the Midwest, President Trump hailed the move as “one of the great deals ever.” But Bloomberg Businessweek, which interviewed 49 people familiar with the project, reports how badly the effort has gone.The plan was to create a high-tech manufacturing hub. It was to be led by a Mount Pleasant plant housing a large chunk of Foxconn’s LCD TV production. “As Foxconn has discovered, there is no better place to build, hire, and grow than right here in the U.S.,” Mr. Trump said at the time, promising that it would create as many as 13,000 jobs.But manufacturing hasn’t taken off. “LCD components weren’t made in the U.S.A., according to sources familiar with the operation,” Austin Carr of Businessweek writes. “They were shipped from a Foxconn factory in Tijuana. The Wisconsin plant was only handling the last steps of assembly.” He adds that “during 2018, the company tried and failed to produce its own LCD materials at scale in Wisconsin so it wouldn’t have to import them from Mexico.”Nor has pay or recruitment. “Pay at the factory started at about $14 an hour with no benefits, much less than the $23 average Foxconn promised. Many people weren’t hired full time,” Mr. Carr writes. “Last fall, the company’s hiring targets began dropping internally,” he adds, with Foxconn importing foreign staff for some roles.Tracking the biggest public company? Good luckKeeping hold of the title of most valuable American company is proving to be difficult, Stephen Grocer of the NYT writes:• “The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year.”• “The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results.”• “The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years.”Blankfein vs. Sanders over stock buybacksA bill introduced by Senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock drew outrage from many in the corporate world — and tempted Goldman Sachs’s former C.E.O. Lloyd Blankfein to tweet for the first time in nearly seven months.Mr. Blankfein’s take: “A company used to be encouraged to return money to shareholders when it couldn’t reinvest in itself for a good return,” he tweeted. “The money doesn’t vanish, it gets reinvested in higher growth businesses that boost the economy and jobs. Is that bad?”Mr. Sanders’s retort: The senator shot back that a buyback, “increases the wealth of billionaires” like Mr. Blankfein. “Instead of making the very rich even richer, how about increasing wages for American workers. Is that a bad idea?”More buyback news: SoftBank of Japan plans to spend $5.5 billion of proceeds from the listing of its telecommunications arm to repurchase stock.Taxpayers paid almost $1 million a day for Trump’s Mar-a-Lago tripsThe Government Accountability Office has published a report of the president’s travel expenses, which show the cost of his visits to his Florida holiday home:• From Feb. 3 to March 5 in 2017, Mr. Trump spent portions of 14 days at the holiday home. The G.A.O. said that those trips had cost a total of $13.6 million, or just less than $1 million per day.• The costs included travel and accommodations, Secret Service expenses and bomb detection. Almost $60,000 was paid directly to Mar-a-Lago.• The Democratic senators Dianne Feinstein and Gary Peters, who requested the report, said the findings provide “a snapshot of the tens of millions of dollars President Trump spends to travel to his Palm Beach resort — all at taxpayer expense — including government funds that are paid directly to a business in which the president himself has a financial interest.”Revolving doorAngela Ahrendts will step down as Apple’s retail chief in April after a five-year run. She’ll be succeeded by Deirdre O’Brien, the company’s head of human resources.SeaWorld Entertainment said it would hire Gus Antorcha, who was most recently Carniva Cruise Line’s chief operating officer, as its new C.E.O.Goldman Sachs promoted Nick Giovanni to co-head of its global tech, media and telecom investment banking team.The speed readDeals• Reddit is reportedly raising as much as $300 million in fresh capital at a valuation of about $2.7 billion. (TechCrunch)• Tyson Foods has reportedly held talks to buy Foster Farms, a producer of chicken products, for about $2 billion. (CNBC)• Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil plan to invest $10 billion in a Texas hub for exporting natural gas. (NYT)• The activist investor Edward Bramson has renewed his push for a seat on the board of Barclays. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft led a $250 million investment in Databricks, a self-professed “boring A.I.” start-up, at a $2.75 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Spotify has struck deals to buy Gimlet Media, the podcast production company, and Anchor, a start-up that helps people make their own podcasts. (Recode)• The E.U. has blocked a merger of the rail divisions of Siemens and Alstom, saying the deal reduced competition too much. (European Commission)Politics and policy• Imaad Zuberi, a venture capitalist and longtime Democratic donor who later gave to Republicans after the 2016 campaign, has drawn scrutiny in a federal inquiry into President Trump’s inauguration. (NYT)• Federal prosecutors are investigating foreign payments to three law and lobbying firms — Mercury Public Affairs; the Podesta Group; and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom — recruited by Paul Manafort. (NYT)• A bipartisan group of senators proposed reimposing sanctions on ZTE if the Chinese telecom company again violates U.S. laws. (CNBC)• The Trump administration has sought to shore up support for its pick to lead the World Bank, David Malpass, ahead of an expected announcement of the nomination today. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump plans to meet with Kim Jong-un of North Korea in Vietnam later this month to revive their nuclear-weapons talks. (NYT)Trade• The Chinese government says that a U.S. report on its compliance with World Trade Organization rules is incorrect. (Reuters)• The U.S. has become Britain’s top oil supplier for the first time since the Suez crisis in 1956. (FT)• U.S. soybean farmers say they don’t share President Trump’s optimism about the sale of their crops to China. (Business Insider)Tech• France ordered Apple to pay back taxes that could amount to hundreds of millions of euros. (FT)• Snap’s stock price jumped over 20 percent after disclosing record revenues — but Bloomberg warns that “not performing terrible is not the same as performing well.” (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Huawei could face a 5G ban in Canada. (Bloomberg)• China’s economic slowdown is hurting its tech start-ups. (WSJ)• Facebook has taken down 22 more pages linked to the Infowars founder Alex Jones. And here’s an antitrust argument for blocking the social network’s plan to integrate its messaging services. (Recode, NYT Op-Ed)• Tesla has again cut the price of its cheapest Model 3, this time by $1,100. (CNBC)Best of the rest• Deutsche Bank says that the German economy is inching toward recession. (Bloomberg)• Blackstone is pulling back on plans to invest billions of dollars across Africa. It has also started a fight with an Italian media mogul. (WSJ, FT)• Some central banks have gold fever, and that might actually be sensible. (Breakingviews)• Walt Disney revealed its plans for a new service to rival Netflix. And the BBC and Discovery have joined forces for a streaming service focused on wildlife shows. (WSJ, FT)• The Federal Reserve will include high unemployment in its 2019 stress test scenarios for big banks. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault aren’t done feuding in the wake of the Carlos Ghosn scandal. (WSJ)• Business leaders should revisit their yearbooks in light of the Ralph Northam scandal. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Sony’s blockbuster share buyback misses the bigger picture at the company.Japan’s $55-billion electronics giant said on Friday that it would repurchase 100 billion yen, or about $911 million, worth of stock. Coming just days after the company reported disappointing earnings, that’s a sign of confidence from its chief executive Kenichiro Yoshida.To boost longer-term returns, though, he needs to convince investors that a much-needed deeper overhaul of the conglomerate is also underway.The buyback will be Sony’s largest ever. Just last week, the company announced a worse-than-expected fall in operating profit from its PlayStation console division, which is its cash cow business. That helped wipe $9 billion off the company’s market value in the days that followed. The latest move is already cushioning that blow: By late morning in Tokyo on Friday, Sony’s shares were up by as much as 5 percent.That should boost Mr. Yoshida’s standing with shareholders. Since taking over last April, the chief executive has presided over an 8 percent loss in share price as of Feb. 7, which is largely in line with Tokyo’s benchmark Topix index.The repurchase plan also shows that Sony’s balance sheet is stronger than it has been in recent years. Net cash, excluding the group’s financial services business, stood at 445 billion yen, or about $4 billion, as of December, up from 177 billion yen a year earlier. But the stock trades at roughly 11 times forward earnings — well below both its own two-year average and the 14 times multiple of its video-games rival Nintendo, according to Refinitiv data.An unruly conglomerate sprawl is to blame. Besides video games, music and movies, Sony also houses a capital-intensive semiconductors unit as well as a loss-making smartphones business. Unlocking value will require bolder steps, like spinning off its chip-making unit or exiting the smartphones business.A share bonanza, though welcome, will only go so far.The strong economic growth of mid-2018 — the stock market soared, hiring picked up and consumer spending surged — reflected, in part, the benefits of a boost in fiscal stimulus. The Trump administration pushed for, and got, a huge tax cut, and then, to give the economy even more oomph, Congress passed budgets for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 that included a rare bipartisan agreement to juice spending for defense and social programs. But the effects of all that stimulus are starting to wane, and problems are emerging that make a recession in 2020 look more and more likely.Over the next few days, as American companies report earnings for 2018, the effects of all that spending will be clear: Corporate tax cuts increased profits last year, and those results will be hard to beat this year. The tax cuts were supposed to trigger an increase in investment, productivity growth and profit margins — which might have nourished future growth — but that failed to materialize. Instead, big corporations authorized a record-breaking $1 trillion in stock buybacks in 2018, according to Goldman Sachs, and made good on those announcements by returning their tax cuts to shareholders. Sure, the buybacks bumped up stock prices, but that proved fleeting, especially after the tax increases, supply-chain disruptions and uncertainty associated with tariffs and trade tensions.Individuals, too, are likely to be disappointed this year, when tax refunds as a result of the 2017 tax legislation fail to meet expectations. Many people did not withhold enough to accommodate changes in the laws, a confusion that is compounded by understaffing at the Internal Revenue Service and delays created by the just-ended government shutdown. Americans count on those refunds to pay down debt and finance big-ticket purchases. When that money isn’t forthcoming, they may be disappointed and angry. Finally, the United States isn’t likely to see any further increase in government spending — an important source of last year’s stimulus — in the current fiscal year. The Republicans have regained religion about deficits since they blew a hole in the budget with tax cuts, while former Tea Party Republicans are looking for cuts to agencies and social programs. The result is that federal spending is expected to decline later this year, and those losses will compound as we move into 2020.The length of the shutdown — 35 days — is also important, as federal employees try to catch up with assignments they missed during that time. The only benchmark for comparison was the 21-day shutdown from December 1995 to January 1996. Then, as now, contractors were especially hard hit; it can take weeks or months to get up and running again. Some of their losses were never recouped. But in 1995 and early 1996, the Federal Reserve made a cut to short-term interest rates, giving an extra lift to the economy once the shutdown ended. The tech bubble was also forming. The subsequent jump in financial markets was so powerful that it prompted Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman at the time, to worry openly about “irrational exuberance.”No one is really worried about exuberance, rational or otherwise, right now. Government spending is playing out, the Fed has been sidelined and doesn’t have a lot of room to cut rates, global growth is slowing and political leaders at home and abroad are at one another’s throats. All that has raised the risk of a 2020 recession.Before that happens, Congress and the president should do whatever they can to sustain economic growth, while we still have growth to sustain. I have been a fiscal hawk my entire professional career, and I don’t usually support deficits in times of prosperity. But there is a small window of opportunity for policymakers to act, while interest rates remain low and we have some wiggle room on taxes. Once a slowdown begins, tax revenues fall, automatic stabilizers such as unemployment insurance kick in, and the need for social services and short-term stimulus intensifies. Then, it may be more difficult to carry out the large-scale investments we need to fundamentally lift long-term growth.For now, the United States can actually afford to pay for investments in its economy. The most important investment is human capital, such as education and training for workers, but spending for that is controlled primarily by state and local governments, not Washington. Federal policymakers do have the power to invest in repairing and upgrading infrastructure, paid for by gradual increases in taxes. This has the potential to increase productivity growth, stimulate more private investment, gain bipartisan support and connect, instead of further divide, rural and urban Americans.Even that may not be enough to generate the investment desperately needed in the private sector, if the uncertainty in Washington isn’t resolved. That requires a heavier political lift. There is a major test coming up. Congress has the power to avert another government shutdown on Feb. 15, even if a border security compromise doesn’t satisfy the president. If Congress exerts its authority, that will represent an important step in the right direction.Diane Swonk is the chief economist for the audit, tax and advisory firm Grant Thornton.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Fears of a looming United States recession have subsided, with investors taking comfort that the Federal Reserve will continue to support economic growth.But warning signs keep flashing about the shaky fundamentals of the economy and therefore the stock market. The latest alarm bell is that Wall Street analysts are slicing their forecasts for how much big companies will earn in the months ahead.Halfway through the first quarter of the year, analysts now expect profits of companies in the S&P 500 to decline by 1.7 percent from the same period last year, according to data from John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet.That is a sharp reversal from the start of 2019, when the same analysts predicted that corporate earnings would rise by 3.3 percent compared with the first quarter of 2018. And in October, before the stock markets entered a downward spiral at the end of the year, analysts had anticipated that first-quarter earnings would leap by 6.6 percent.Corporate profits are by no means a perfect proxy for the health of the United States economy, the world’s largest. But they exert heavy influence over the direction of the stock markets.In the first nine months of last year, for example, an unexpected gusher of company earnings — up 20 percent from their previous levels — powered the S&P 500 to record highs. The fat bottom lines allowed investors to look past both the prospect of a trade war between the United States and China and a number of data points that showed large foreign economies, including Japan and Germany, losing steam.Even in the final three months of 2018, as the United States appeared to be skidding into an economic recession, corporate profits leapt higher. Not all companies have disclosed their fourth-quarter results yet, but they are on track to be up 13.3 percent from 2017.It isn’t unusual for analysts to pare back their earnings forecasts over the course of a quarter. Corporate executives offer guidance about how their businesses are performing, and a variety of macroeconomic data helps analysts hone their profit projections. Over the past decade, analysts’ profit forecasts have declined on average by 3.7 percent over the course of a full quarter.On Dec. 31, analysts expected companies in the S&P 500 to earn, on average, $40.21 per share. Today, that estimate is $37.95 — an unusually large 5.6 percent drop, according to FactSet.If companies’ first-quarter performances turn out to be as weak as analysts expect, the United States will be on track for what the financial community calls an earnings recession, which occurs when corporate profits shrink for two straight quarters.That looks increasingly likely to happen in the first half of this year. Analysts expect earnings to rise by just 1.2 percent in the second quarter. That forecast is likely to fall, perhaps into negative territory, as more companies disclose their results and analysts update their forecasting models.The S&P 500 last endured an earnings recession in 2015 and 2016. It was set off in large part by tumbling oil prices, which eroded the profits of energy companies. During that period, a six-year stock market rally stalled, and the S&P 500 twice fell by more than 10 percent.Corporate profits this year were always going to face a difficult comparison with 2018. The combination of a strong United States economy and the newly reduced corporate tax rates led earnings to jump more than 20 percent.But profits are now under pressure on multiple fronts, and there are no new tax cuts to cushion the blow — an ill omen for the stock market, if not the broader economy. Rising costs and a slowing global economy, in particular in China, have caused many S&P 500 companies to reduce their profit outlooks for 2019.That is especially true among technology companies. Analysts expect them to report a nearly 10 percent decline in profits in the first quarter, the biggest decline of any sector in the S&P 500.Much of the blame for the tech sector’s declining fortunes rests with Apple. The company warned in early January that it was seeing diminished demand for new iPhones in China. When it reported earnings, Apple said it expected sales of $55 billion to $59 billion in the current quarter, below analysts’ expectations for $59 billion.Since the end of last year, analysts have cut by nearly 19 percent their estimates for how much Apple will earn in the first three months of the year.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Bets on Big Tech became, in Wall Street parlance, crowded last year.The belief that shares of the world’s tech giants — Alibaba, Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Baidu, Facebook, Netflix and Tencent — would continue to rise became universally popular among some of the biggest names in investing.Last quarter, sentiment reversed, and those same investors dumped their shares.Investment firms run by George Soros and David Tepper unloaded their shares of Apple during the fourth quarter, according to filings Thursday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The hedge fund Jana Partners also reduced its stake in the iPhone maker last quarter.Even Berkshire Hathaway, which has spent the past three years gobbling up shares of Apple, cut back its holdings in the company.And Apple was not the only tech titan that big investors were selling last quarter.Jana, along with Third Point, sold all its shares in Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant. Third Point exited its position in Netflix. Leon Cooperman’s firm, Omega Advisors, sold its stake in Facebook and reduced its holdings in Alphabet. And Tiger Global Management decreased its holdings in Amazon.The filings are the latest evidence of how quickly investors soured on Big Tech late last year as the industry’s woes mounted. A stream of revelations about privacy lapses and security issues had raised the specter of increased regulation on both sides of the Atlantic. But of more immediate concern for investors late last year was whether these companies could continue to grow amid a slowing global economy and an escalating trade war between China and the United States.Over the final three months of last year, tech shares dropped 13 percent to 30 percent, erasing more than $1 trillion in market value. By comparison, the S&P 500 fell 14 percent.The selling signaled a swift shift in sentiment among big hedge funds. Many of these fund managers had struggled to beat the broader market in recent years. So as tech stocks soared and drove much of the broader market’s gains, hedge funds crammed their portfolios with their shares.The selling caught the hedge fund industry off guard, and their losses mounted during the fourth-quarter tumult in the stock market.So far this year, shares of the tech companies have recovered, but most have not fared as well as the S&P 500.Earnings for the final three months of 2018 were better than investors feared, but they did not inspire confidence that Big Tech would weather a global economic slowdown well, particularly in China.Whether investors will pile back into tech stocks will probably depend on the outcome of trade talks between China and the United States. Until then, many investors may stay on the sidelines.Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Do you have Presidents’ Day off? I hope so, and that you’re spending it someplace warm and dry, even if that’s just a nest of pillows your living room. The third week of February is the peak of winter drear, in my opinion, and we could all use a break from the gray skies and interminable drama in Washington. Whether you’re heading into a short workweek or not, here’s what to know when it starts, from the latest on President Trump and the wall to the market outlook from the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, and other business and tech news.FEB. 10-16What’s Up? A New Can of WormsSo much for negotiating. Congress passed a spending bill to keep the government open before the deadline on Friday, but the legislation only includes $1.375 billion for 55 miles of steel-post fencing along the southern border. That’s a fraction of the $5.7 billion for more than 200 miles of steel or concrete barriers that President Trump has been demanding for months. Mr. Trump responded by declaring a national emergency to tap into billions of dollars originally earmarked for other government projects. Critics view this action as an attempt to save face on his wall promises. But the move also raises questions about his executive powers, and will most likely be challenged in the courts. Not Such a Prime LocationAlexa, we hardly knew thee. Amazon abruptly canceled its plan to build a sprawling corporate campus (also known as HQ2) in New York City, citing backlash from government leaders, unions and residents. Although the company promised to bring 25,000 new jobs to the area, that wasn’t enough to drown out critics who opposed the cushy tax breaks and other financial incentives that New York lawmakers used to lure the tech giant to Long Island City, Queens. “A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward,’’ Amazon said in a statement on Thursday. It still plans to build another campus in Virginia. Tax TurmoilOh look, the dreaded tax forms in your mailbox: It’s that time again. To make this season even more painful, millions of Americans will get smaller tax refunds this year, or find that they owe money despite no changes in their salaries. Yes, the Trump administration’s tax overhaul was supposed to keep more money in your pocket, but the average refund for early filers was down 8.4 percent. What’s going on? For some taxpayers, it’s that certain deductions no longer apply. For others, it’s that less money was withheld from their pay last year. Either way, this isn’t what you want to hear from your accountant, and it could dampen consumer spending in the coming months. FEB. 17-23What’s Next? Buffett Takes StockIf you’re in the market for some corny investment jokes, look no further than Warren Buffett’s annual shareholder letter, which he will post on Saturday along with financial results for his company, Berkshire Hathaway. The third-richest man in the world, Mr. Buffett, 88, has used his yearly letters to deliver dad humor, nuggets of financial wisdom and insights into his big-picture view of the economy since 1965. Many people pore over his words for stock tips, but they’re also worth a gander if you're interested in learning from one of the most successful and experienced private investors in history. What the Fed Was ThinkingRemember when the Federal Reserve suddenly changed its mind about raising interest rates at its January policy meeting and adopted a more hands-off approach that sent markets into fits of glee? The Fed may offer more clues about its flip-flop when the minutes from that meeting become public on Wednesday. The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, has now indicated that the Fed won’t raise rates again until inflation accelerates — a reversal of previous policy. Higher rates are intended to keep the economy steady as it grows, so it’ll be interesting to learn why Fed officials felt compelled to take their hands off the levers. The Standoff Drags On. And On.If you hoped that American and Chinese officials might start making some real progress in resolving their trade war, sorry. Yet another round of talks concluded this past week with no resolution in sight, although they will continue this coming week in Washington. Mr. Trump is supposedly considering a 60-day extension to the looming March 2 deadline for a deal. If the world’s two largest economic powers can’t come to an agreement, the United States has threatened to impose punitive tariffs against Chinese goods, hurting consumers in both countries. The upside to giving negotiators more time is obvious: The tariffs could be avoided, or at least put off. The downside is that it leaves companies — and even entire industries, like soybean farming — in limbo for even longer. What Else?Surprise, surprise: Prime Minister Theresa May hit another setback over Britain’s fraught exit from the European Union when her own party splintered on Thursday. Speaking of hot water, Facebook may have earned itself a multibillion-dollar fine from the Federal Trade Commission over privacy violations. Elsewhere in big money: JPMorgan will be the first major American bank to roll out its own cryptocurrency, even though its chief executive called bitcoin “a fraud” back in 2017. And finally, can’t afford an engagement ring for your loved one? Consider this $1.30 plastic version.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The government shutdown and the late 2018 stock market tumult eroded confidence in the economy among business owners and consumers alike last month.Now that the stock market has rallied and the government has reopened, will optimism about the economy rebound, or is the recent slide an indication of a more lasting shift?In January, both the National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism index for small businesses and the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to their lowest levels since at least November 2016. And the Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence posted its steepest decline over the past few months since 2011.Those three indexes had jumped in the months after Donald J. Trump was elected president on optimism that his pro-business agenda of reduced taxes and regulation would ignite economic growth. The indexes peaked last year as the stock market marched to record highs, and despite the recent pullback, they remain at historically elevated levels.Businesses, policymakers and investors often use sentiment surveys to evaluate the direction of the economy. If confidence is high, the thinking goes, business owners and consumers are more likely to open their wallets to make purchases, hire employees and expand their operations. If those same groups are worried about the future, they are more likely to curtail their spending.But upward swings in sentiment do not necessarily translate into increased spending and economic growth. The economy, for instance, remained sluggish for more than a year after consumer and business confidence jumped in the months after the 2016 election.Such indexes are also sensitive to short-term moves in the stock market and political developments that have little effect on spending.Indications that sentiment is set to rebound are beginning to appear. Economic confidence recovered in a poll conducted in early February for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey.The University of Michigan releases a preliminary version of its survey roughly halfway through each month and then its final report at the end. Last month, the final figure, although the lowest since October 2016, showed a slight uptick from the preliminary version, which was released during the shutdown. Also, the survey’s personal financial expectations index, considered a better indicator of household spending than the overall index, held up during the period.The university will release its preliminary consumer sentiment index for February on Friday.The report on small-business sentiment also offered reasons to think the slide in confidence may be temporary. Within the index, expectations among business owners about their sales and the overall economy had the biggest declines. But those segments typically have been the most sensitive to gyrations in the stock markets.Meanwhile, expectations for business spending, which had slid sharply since August, stopped declining.John Bogle, the father of low-cost investing, once said that the index fund was the “most successful innovation — especially for investors — in modern financial history.”It’s easy to see why. Index funds typically track a broad group of stocks, like all the companies in the Dow Jones industrial average or the S.&P. 500. Rather than trying to choose one or two winning stocks, or relying on the expertise of a mutual fund manager to do so, investors in index funds can buy a range of businesses and hold them to capture the long-term growth of the market. Because index funds generally don’t need ace stock pickers, they charge rock-bottom fees. Index funds are now the dominant force in investing, holding trillions of dollars of American assets.But there’s a problem: The indexes these funds are based on may not be as neutral as they seem. The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors.The Wall Street Journal recently reported that MSCI, one of the largest index providers in the United States, added Chinese issuers to its Emerging Markets Index after the Chinese government threatened to curtail MSCI’s business in the country. (MSCI told The Journal that its process for choosing firms in its index is “transparent and objective” and includes safeguards to maintain those standards.) Clearly, there needs to be transparency and accountability in index providers’ decisions. Conflicts of interest should worry anyone who is invested in index funds, which includes many Americans with retirement accounts. Index providers have enormous power. The decision to include a company in the S.&P. 500, for example, results in a reallocation of billions of dollars of investors’ money. The average company added to the S.&P. 500 gains value; when it’s removed, its share price drops as index funds sell their holdings.Even more worrying is recent research by Prof. Adriana Robertson of the University of Toronto, who documents the rise of highly customized indexes, which are developed for the use of a single fund. She shows that the index and the fund are frequently run by the same managers.Indexes like these start to look less like the objective benchmarks investors often believe they’re getting. Investors may not understand how the index works or whether it may be susceptible to undue influence.We saw the real costs of benchmark manipulation in the Libor-rigging scandal. In 2012, settlements with regulators and the Justice Department revealed that some of the world’s most influential banks had manipulated the Libor benchmark, which is used to determine borrowing costs across the economy. The abuses allowed banks to extract excess profits while raising interest costs for American homeowners and students. In response, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, under Commissioner Rostin Behnam, established a group to reform such benchmarks. There is no such group overseeing stock market indexes. While there are global standards for how indexes should be governed, American law remains remarkably silent on the subject.There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted. Some well-known indexes have established committees to decide which companies are included; for instance, the stocks in the S.&P. 500 index, which is tracked by mutual funds holding more than $1 trillion in assets, are chosen by committee. But these committees have enormous discretion.Indexes have influence over stock prices that even the largest investors can only envy. Given the conflicts of interest the index providers face and the power they wield over markets, we need a national conversation about how to ensure that they operate with integrity, transparency and accountability. Unfortunately, existing law is ill suited for the purpose.That’s why we’re calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans’ investment dollars are allocated. We need to bring more transparency and accountability to the way these companies use that influence.Robert J. Jackson Jr. sits on the Securities and Exchange Commission. Steven Davidoff Solomon is a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, Law School and director of its Center for Law and Business. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________No, this isn’t about Fannie Mae. And don’t get confused with Jed Clampett’s hayseed daughter Elly May on “The Beverly Hillbillies,” either. It’s Ellie Mae, the publicly traded provider of mortgage-processing software-as-a-service to American home lenders.The investment firm Thoma Bravo is paying $3.7 billion to acquire the Pleasanton, Calif.-based Ellie Mae. That’s more than 25 times the software company’s projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for this year, according to estimates collated by Refinitiv, and a nearly 50 percent premium to its stock’s latest 30-day closing average.It’s a pretty price to pay for exposure to a market that is being buffeted by rising interest rates, slipping home-price gains and worries about affordability. The Mortgage Bankers Association believes that United States home-loan originations declined by a little over 5 percent last year to $1.6 trillion.But such headwinds make the cost benefits of outsourced automation all the more attractive to lenders. Mortgage loan processing has always been tedious, and new regulations imposed in the wake of the subprime-mortgage crisis only added to the burden.Ellie Mae estimates that the cost of making a new mortgage loan more than doubled between 2007 and 2017, to just over $8,000. It claims to be able to reduce those costs by about a third. More than 2,300 lenders have adopted the company’s software and used it to close more than 2.5 million loans. The goal of the 22-year-old business is to “automate everything automatable.” It assessed its own market share at 35 percent in 2017, and its target is for more than half.The company, led by Jonathan Corr, isn’t immune to broader trends, of course. Full-year profit for 2018 is projected to fall by about half from 2017, while revenue growth is expected to slow to 6 percent this year from 15 percent last year, according to data from Refinitiv. But it has no debt on its balance sheet, giving a private-equity buyer room to leverage its returns, even if not to the stretched levels possible in some industries.And investors seem to believe the sky is the limit for cloud-based software services. That may explain why Ellie Mae’s stock traded slightly above the offer price for much of the day on Thursday, suggesting that Thoma Bravo’s $99-a-share offer may not be the final word.SAN FRANCISCO — Technology companies rarely make money before they go public. Twitter was unprofitable when it listed on the stock market. So were Snap, Spotify and SurveyMonkey.For Uber, the question as the ride-hailing giant prepares for a public offering is even bigger than whether it can make money. That’s because the company, the most prominent tech start-up of its generation, will set the bar for other well-known tech companies like Slack and Lyft as they also stampede toward the stock market this year.So far, Uber is not doing itself any favors on profits.The company reported on Friday that it had narrowed its net loss in the fourth quarter of 2018 from a year earlier. But excluding certain one-time items, including the sale of some of its businesses, Uber’s losses for the quarter rose 88 percent from the previous year, to $842 million.The losses were a result of Uber’s increasing its spending as it tries to outmuscle competitors, many of which have intensified their efforts to add riders and drivers. Uber has responded by offering bigger incentives and more promotions to fend off rivals like DoorDash, Lyft and other ride-hailing and food-delivery services.Uber made its financial disclosure as it hurtles toward what is set to be one of the biggest-ever public offerings by a tech company. A transportation colossus, Uber was privately valued at more than $70 billion last year, and proposals from investment bankers suggest that it could be worth as much as $120 billion after going public. The share sale will create enormous windfalls for Uber’s many investors, and for its founders and early employees.As a private company, Uber is not required to disclose financial results. But it has regularly done so over the past two years to inform investors about its business, and perhaps to keep the depth of its losses from coming as a surprise later.The latest set of figures, probably Uber’s last as a private company, will be closely scrutinized. Many investors initially give young and fast-growing tech start-ups a pass for losing money, but questions about whether such companies can ultimately be profitable eventually catch up with them. Investors criticized Twitter for racking up losses before it finally began to make money last year, and they have pushed down Snap’s share price since its public offering, partly because the company is still deeply unprofitable.In a statement, Uber’s chief financial officer, Nelson Chai, did not address the company’s losses. He said Uber had “maintained category leadership” in its ride-hailing business, and he noted other bright spots, including the company’s freight-management business and nascent e-bike and scooter program.Uber has a long history of spending large sums of money. Ride-hailing is inherently an expensive business that requires companies to expand into new markets for growth, pay to recruit drivers and lower prices to grab business away from competitors.Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s chief executive, has been under pressure to pare its losses, and the company has pulled out of money-losing markets like Russia and Southeast Asia.Some of the company’s losses have been overshadowed by its explosive growth. In 2018, Uber increased its total bookings — what it charges customers for rides and food delivery — to $50 billion, up 45 percent from 2017. Net revenue was $11.3 billion, a 43 percent increase.The company’s net revenue for last year’s fourth quarter was $3 billion, a 25 percent increase from a year earlier, and its gross bookings jumped 37 percent, to $14.2 billion. The company has $6.4 billion in cash, and its net loss was $865 million.But Uber’s profit margins have declined as it cut prices to match competitors and spent money on expanding its food-delivery business, Uber Eats. The margins are also smaller on Uber Eats orders because the company pays commissions to restaurants as well as delivery drivers.Uber’s self-driving car program, which will probably not yield revenue for years, continues to burn cash. The company returned its autonomous vehicles to public roads in December after a 10-month hiatus, which was prompted when one of its vehicles  fatally struck a pedestrian in Arizona.BEIJING — United States officials said on Friday that they had made “progress” during a week of trade talks with their Chinese counterparts, but big sticking points remain and the two sides plan to continue negotiations next week in Washington to try to end the trade war.The United States and China are trying to reach an agreement ahead of a March 2 deadline, when President Trump has threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. On Friday, Mr. Trump suggested for the second time in a week that he would push the deadline back if the two sides were edging closer to a deal.“There is a possibility that I will extend the date,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the White House, noting the complexity of the negotiations. “I will do that at the same tariffs we are at now; I would not increase the tariffs.”Mr. Trump said the discussions with Beijing were going “extremely well” but added that the only thing that mattered was whether the two sides could reach a deal that resolved his concerns about China’s trade practices.“We’re a lot closer than we ever were in this country to having a real trade deal,” Mr. Trump said, adding that the agreement with China would cover “theft” and “unfairness.”But significant differences remain in the trade talks, and it is unclear whether they can be resolved, people briefed on the negotiations said.“These detailed and intensive discussions led to progress between the two parties,” the White House press secretary said in a statement. “Much work remains, however.”American officials said the talks focused on so-called structural reforms that the United States wanted China to make, and on China’s purchase of American goods and services. The White House said Friday that any agreement between the two countries would be included in “a memoranda of understanding between the two countries.”The most difficult and intractable issue involves the Trump administration’s desire to put meaningful restrictions on China’s ability to keep investing enormous sums of money from the government, and from government-affiliated financial institutions, in a wide range of advanced manufacturing sectors that compete with American industries. These include areas like commercial aircraft manufacturing, semiconductors and artificial intelligence.Another challenge for negotiators is that both sides perceive national security as being at stake in some cases.China has been reluctant to unblock internet access to its market for some of Silicon Valley’s biggest and most successful businesses, like Facebook and Google. It fears that without stringent censorship, everything from democratic ideas to pornography would be harder to fight.Mr. Trump said that American tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese imports were hurting China “very badly” and that it would be “an honor” to remove them if an agreement could be reached. He acknowledged that a deal of such magnitude could take more than just a few weeks.The president, speaking from the Rose Garden, added that he would most likely meet with President Xi Jinping of China “at some point” to work out any remaining differences between the two countries.The prospect of extending the March deadline has divided Mr. Trump’s economic advisers, with hard-liners such as Robert Lighthizer, the administration’s top trade negotiator, increasingly wary that China is trying to run out the clock or clinch an unenforceable deal that it will ultimately break. A delay in the deadline would be viewed internally as a win for Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, who has been pushing hard to put the trade war to rest and calm markets.Mr. Mnuchin said that he and Mr. Lighthizer had “productive meetings” with Liu He, China’s economic czar.Mr. Lighthizer and Mr. Mnuchin also met with Mr. Xi on Friday afternoon at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. Stocks in the United States were up 1 percent on Friday as optimism about the state of the negotiations calmed jittery investors.The talks did allow both sides to at least begin hashing out their differences. Both the United States and China began somewhat mechanically combining their lists of offers into a memorandum of understanding that included areas of disagreement in bracketed text, with each side’s separate views listed for each issue, people briefed on the talks said. Compiling the various offers could someday make it possible for the countries’ leaders to go through the options more systematically.But the broad areas of disagreement still left in the bracketed text mean that an actual, comprehensive understanding between the two sides remains elusive.The negotiations did not include any big new concessions by China to limit its government-led push to build high-tech industries in competition with the West, said the people, who insisted on anonymity because of the diplomatic and financial sensitivity of the talks.China Central Television, a state-controlled broadcaster, said early Friday evening on its website that progress had been made. It said the talks would continue in Washington next week.“New progress has been made on important and difficult issues,” CCTV said, without providing any details. “Although there is still a lot of work to be done, we have hope.”China is in the middle of a sharp economic slowdown, triggered partly by Beijing’s efforts to rein in debt but also by a sudden faltering in the willingness of consumers to spend and industries to invest. Many business leaders attribute the decline in consumer and investor confidence to the trade war.That economic backdrop has given Chinese leaders an incentive to emphasize progress in the talks. Mr. Mnuchin has also stressed progress, allaying worries among stock market investors. Mr. Lighthizer has said little in public while pressing for a comprehensive trade deal.The two sides have been struggling with more than 100 issues raised by the United States in a lengthy statement given to Chinese officials in May. In preparation for this week’s talks, the two sides had been unable to even agree on a draft framework for the broad outlines of a possible deal, so expectations for any comprehensive settlement had been low from the start.Many of the issues, like how to handle the tech sector, have been festering between the United States and China for a long time. Many high-tech issues are also changing and evolving along with the sector, making it especially difficult to put in place a durable agreement.“Particularly in the areas of technology regulation and standards, it will be a game of Whac-a-Mole at best,” said James Green, who was the top trade official at the United States Embassy in Beijing until August and is now a senior nonresident fellow at Georgetown University.The negotiations this week have encompassed some issues on which incremental progress has been made in recent weeks, people briefed on the negotiations said. China has agreed to disclose more of its government subsidies to the World Trade Organization, these people said.Chinese officials have also expressed a willingness to let foreign companies participate in panels that set standards on important industrial issues, like fuel-economy averages for cars. But while that might give foreign companies a glimpse of upcoming rules, they would be in a minority and might not have much influence.The Trump administration also sees national security at issue in a long list of products that the United States either already imports from China or might be likely to import in the next few years. These include many products, from nuclear reactor components to aircraft engine parts, from among the $50 billion of annual imports on which the administration imposed 25 percent tariffs in the summer.China has tried repeatedly over the past year and a half to allay American concerns about its government-subsidized investments in high-tech industries by offering to guarantee very large purchases from the United States of everything from soybeans to helicopters.In some cases, the purchase offers are being poorly received in the United States because they could distort existing supply chains. This week, China offered to ramp up purchases of American semiconductors, to the industry’s chagrin.“The reported offer by China to vastly increase its purchases of U.S. semiconductors may look good at first glance, but it’s a mirage, aimed at shuffling U.S. supply chains and driving them deeper into China,” said John Neuffer, president of the Semiconductor Industry Association. “It would also represent a significant departure from the market-driven economics that have long defined our sector and the U.S. economy.”He added: “We are confident U.S. government negotiators will see through this distraction.”The Trump administration and the American business community have mostly been leery about an agreement that centers on purchases of goods but does not address long-term issues involving China’s government-backed drive for high-tech competitiveness. Some market-oriented economists in China have also advocated limits on the government’s industrial policies, because they worry about the ever-rising debt associated with them.“If we don’t address the deeper issues, neither side will be doing itself any favors,” said Tim Stratford, who is the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China and the managing partner of the Beijing office of the Covington and Burling law firm.Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi agreed in Buenos Aires on Dec. 1 on a stopgap compromise that does not fully satisfy either side but might prove durable. Mr. Trump agreed not to raise tariffs further then but kept in place the tariffs he had already imposed, while China removed most of the retaliation that it had imposed.That deal has not satisfied trade hawks in the United States, who want broader changes in the bilateral relationship, or the more nationalistic wing of the Chinese Communist Party, which perceived the deal as representing, to some extent, a Chinese retreat.Federal Reserve officials decided in late January to pause their steady campaign to raise interest rates as the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened, according to the minutes of that meeting released on Wednesday.Fed officials concluded that a pause posed “few risks” for a strong economy in which prices continued to increase at a subdued rate, the minutes show. The Fed did not see any immediate threats to America’s economic expansion, but officials indicated they were worried enough about potential risks — including slowing growth in China and Europe, trade tensions, a volatile stock market and a prolonged government shutdown — to postpone rate increases.Whether the Fed will raise rates at all in 2019 remains unclear. The minutes show a divergence among Fed officials, with “several” saying they believed it would be appropriate to raise rates again later this year “if the economy evolved as they expected.” Others were less eager to resume the increases, particularly if inflation remained below the Fed’s 2 percent target.James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, suggested to reporters this month that the Fed had gone too far with rate increases last year. Other officials have said in recent days they expect rate increases to resume, a view the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland president, Loretta J. Mester, expressed in a speech this week.Markets found little new information in the minutes. The S&P 500, which had been negative earlier in the day, rose slightly. Treasury bond yields barely budged.The January meeting was a departure by the Fed from what had been a slow and steady march toward higher rates and less stimulative monetary policy amid a strengthening economy. After five consecutive quarters of raising rates, Fed officials left them unchanged in January, as expected. But they surprised markets in the policy statement released after the meeting, which dropped previous language that said “some further gradual increases” in interest rates would be warranted in the months to come.That shift appears to have been, in part, a corrective note to financial markets, which officials believed had turned volatile in December on the belief that Fed officials were not sufficiently worried about economic uncertainty at home and abroad — or willing to adopt more stimulative policy measures if those uncertainties turned into economic drags.The Fed’s communication after its December meeting, when officials raised rates by a quarter of a percentage point, “were reportedly perceived by market participants as not fully appreciating the tightening of financial conditions and the associated downside risks to the U.S. economic outlook that had emerged since the fall,” the minutes said.Officials worried in particular that investors did not have a clear picture of how the Fed planned to deal with the slimming of the bond portfolio it amassed in the wake of the financial crisis. In addition to lowering interest rates to near zero, the Fed tried to goose the economy by purchasing large quantities of mortgage bonds and Treasury securities, as a way to encourage investors to buy riskier assets, like stocks.The Fed has slowly been winnowing that $4 trillion portfolio by allowing up to $50 billion in bonds to mature each month, but officials appeared to agree in January that the balance sheet runoff should end this year.Officials agreed that “it would be desirable to announce before too long a plan to stop reducing the Federal Reserve’s asset holdings later this year” and said the announcement “would provide more certainty about the process for completing the normalization of the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet.”The minutes also highlighted just how hard it is for the Fed, which does not traffic in plain language, to always effectively communicate its plans. At the January meeting, Fed officials noted that investors were perceiving the central bank to be “insufficiently flexible” in both its rate increase campaign and its balance sheet runoff.Fed officials tried to change those perceptions after both the December and January meetings. The Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said in a news conference on Jan. 30 that officials had concluded that recent economic developments — including slowing global growth, turmoil in financial markets and uncertainty over trade negotiations — had pushed the central bank to “a patient, wait-and-see approach regarding future policy changes.”“We are now facing a somewhat contradictory picture of generally strong U.S. macroeconomic performance, alongside growing evidence of crosscurrents,” Mr. Powell said. “At such times, common sense risk management suggests patiently awaiting greater clarity.”Curt Long, the chief economist at the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions, said the minutes revealing the shift to a more “patient” stance were “certainly a nod to jittery markets.”Greg McBride, the chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com, was more blunt: “It’s evident the Fed was rattled by the markets and caved,” he wrote on Wednesday.The minutes show Fed officials saw little downside to the shift. They show officials “pointed to a variety of considerations that supported a patient approach to monetary policy,” including the need for additional economic data, which would help policymakers better gauge business and consumer sentiment.The Fed also believed that being patient would allow more time to determine the effect of President Trump’s trade war with China and other countries and the economic damage from the prolonged government shutdown, which had not been resolved at the time of the January meeting.“Information arriving in coming months could also shed light on the effects of the recent partial federal government shutdown on the U.S. economy and on the results of the budget negotiations occurring in the wake of the shutdown, including the possible implications for the path of fiscal policy,” the minutes said.The pause had its desired effect with investors, as markets celebrated that news with a rally that has since continued.Other critics of the Fed’s interest rate campaign also appear to have been pleased. Mr. Trump — who has repeatedly criticized the Fed for raising interest rates — dined with Mr. Powell soon after the meeting. Many liberal economists also cheered the move to slow rate increases, saying it would help workers by continuing to buoy the labor market and potentially raise wages.Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.China trade talks turn to currencyThis week’s trade negotiations between the U.S. and China will have to bridge a lot of gulfs between the two countries. One particularly tricky issue is that Washington wants Beijing to adopt a policy that would keep the value of China’s currency stable. More on that from Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources:• “While the precise wording remains unresolved, a pledge of yuan stability has been discussed in multiple rounds of talks in recent months and both sides have tentatively agreed it will be part of the framework of any final deal.”• “The Trump administration has been clear in its talks with Beijing that any attempt to depreciate the yuan — a strategy aimed at offsetting existing U.S. duties on Chinese imports — would be met with more or higher American tariffs.”• But currency stability may be at odds with other policies. “A U.S. request for Beijing to keep the yuan from depreciating is also potentially difficult to square with Trump and past U.S. administrations’ calls for China to adopt more market-driven reforms and complaints that Beijing manipulates its currency to gain a trade advantage.”There are other contentious issues. The FT rated the chances of success of several critical issues being discussed this week, from stronger protections of intellectual property rights (likely to happen) to the cessation of hacking (much less likely).And any deal would need enforcement measures. CNBC reports that unidentified officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believe a deal would be meaningless if there aren’t mechanisms such as automatic tariff increases to punish China if it fails to keep its promises.But there appears to be less time pressure. President Trump said yesterday that the March 1 deadline for reaching an agreement “is not a magical date,” adding that “a lot of things can happen.”Can Theresa May get what she wants from Brussels?The British prime minister is meeting with European officials today in an attempt to reach a final compromise that would save her Brexit plan. It won’t be easy.Her goal is to revise the deal. “The British government sees May’s meeting on Wednesday with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a crucial chance to get legally binding changes” to the agreement, Bloomberg reports.She has dropped some controversial ideas to help her position. The FT reports that the notion of using technology to solve issues surrounding the Irish border — a plan considered unworkable by E.U. officials — has been abandoned.But Europe still isn’t budging. “There isn’t enough movement for me to be able to expect this to be a discussion with a concrete outcome,” Mr. Juncker said yesterday, later adding “I’m losing my time with this Brexit,” according to Bloomberg.More Brexit news: Britain is unlikely to secure trade deals with Japan and South Korea before it exits the E.U. Another lawmaker has left Britain’s opposition Labour Party to join a newly formed independent group. Three Conservative Party lawmakers have also resigned to join the new group. Honda may move some of the British production of its Civic model to the U.S. — and other Japanese automakers may also leave the country.How a Bernie Sanders presidency would affect businessThe Vermont senator finally tossed his hat into the 2020 ring yesterday, becoming the latest candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination. Mr. Sanders quickly became one of the most formidable candidates: He raised more than $4 million from individual donors in just one day and retains a big fan base from his 2016 run.CNBC breaks down how Mr. Sanders would affect the business world should he become president:• His Medicare-for-all concept, introduced in 2017, proposes moving Americans away from private health insurance to a government-provided policy. He has also pressed to cut drug prices.• He has long criticized big banks, and has fought to break up institutions like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs. Earlier this month, he also teamed up with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, on legislation to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock.• He wants a higher minimum wage of $15 an hour, and has put pressure on Amazon, Walmart and other companies to follow suit.But there’s a big caveat to his 2020 odds. As Sydney Ember of the NYT notes: “Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers.”California and the U.S. hit an impasse over vehicle standardsTalks between state and federal officials on vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards have broken down, Bloomberg reported, citing unnamed sources:• The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had been meeting with California’s Air Resources Board to try and compromise on a replacement for Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.• “The breakdown in talks adds to tension between Washington and Sacramento, which has emerged as a major antagonist to the Trump administration.”• “No further discussions are scheduled over the critical auto industry rules, said the people, who asked to not be identified discussing the private talks.”• California is America’s biggest auto market, and as such has set a de facto national standard for auto emissions.How Trump tried to stymie investigationsThe NYT took a deep dive into how President Trump has sought to clamp down on the many investigations that touch upon his presidency over the past two years. Among the incidents the newspaper uncovered:He tried to install a loyalist as head of the Michael Cohen inquiry. “He asked whether Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a Trump ally, could be put in charge of the widening investigation, according to several American officials with direct knowledge of the call,” the NYT reports. The acting attorney general at the time, Matthew Whitaker, demurred.He wanted a misleading public statement about Michael Flynn’s resignation. As White House officials discussed how to explain the departure of Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, amid an F.B.I. investigation, the president asked Sean Spicer, then the press secretary, to say he had requested Mr. Flynn’s resignation. When Mr. Spicer asked if that was true, Mr. Trump responded, “Say that I asked for his resignation.”He has sought to discredit the special counsel, Robert Mueller. With the arrival of Rudy Giuliani on his legal team, Mr. Trump “decided to combine a legal strategy with a public relations campaign in an aggressive effort to undermine the credibility of both Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department,” the NYT reports. The result: Polls last summer showed more Americans distrusted Mr. Mueller, prompting Mr. Giuliani to say, “I think we’ve done really well.”The S.E.C. wants to make I.P.O.s easierThe Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a proposal yesterday that would let all companies — not just certain small ones — confidentially discuss potential I.P.O. plans with investors before committing to the process, the WSJ reports:• “The conversations would allow companies to identify information that is important to investors and to gauge market interest before formally announcing a public offering.”• “Currently, large companies must publicly file their securities offering documents to regulators before gauging investor interest.”• “Making it easier and more appealing for companies to go public has been a central goal of S.E.C. Chairman Jay Clayton. The number of public companies has fallen by nearly 50 percent since the late 1990s.”• But this potential change isn’t as revolutionary as others the S.E.C. has proposed, Anna Pinedo of the law firm Mayer Brown told the WSJ. “It’s not going to single-handedly change if a company was going to decide to go public or not,” she said.Walmart had a great quarter — and an awful morningThe American retail giant is riding high after a banner earnings report yesterday, with its shares up as much as 4 percent in Tuesday trading. Here’s why:• Profits rose 69 percent to $3.69 billion.• Online sales were up 43 percent during the quarter, matching the company’s goal.• Same-store sales in the U.S. were up 4.2 percent in the quarter, above the 3.2 percent that analysts had expected.But Britain’s competition regulator dealt it bad news this morning by essentially blocking the company’s plan to merge its Asda grocery chain with J Sainsbury. The move hinders Walmart’s effort to shed the underperforming business, since it’s unclear how the American retailer can divest it.Why housing (probably) won’t start a recessionThe U.S. may be on the brink of a recession, but housing is unlikely to be the cause, Conor Dougherty of the NYT writes. Here’s why:• “The housing sector accounts for as little as 3 percent of economic output during recessions and about twice that during booms. Other pieces of the economy are much bigger, but they don’t change nearly as much from boom to bust.”• “The most recent recession, from 2007 to 2009, offered one of the more exaggerated examples of housing’s guiding role in downturns. A recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis found that the construction sector accounted for a little over a third of the decline in output in the past recession.”• “How does housing look now? Mixed, but mixed in such a way that the things most important to economic growth are the most stable.”• “When economists talk about a recession in housing, they largely refer to construction, not home prices,” and “construction is bordering on moribund.”• “In other words: Housing is in recession already. It might not get better soon, but it probably won’t get worse.”Revolving doorPresident Trump will nominate Jeffrey Rosen as deputy attorney general, replacing Rod Rosenstein.Marc Short, who was President Trump’s legislative director for two years, has become Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff.Lindsay Walters, a White House deputy press secretary, will leave in April to join Edelman, the P.R. firm.CNN hired Sarah Isgur Flores, the Justice Department’s spokeswoman under Jeff Sessions, as a political editor in Washington.The speed readDeals• Carl Icahn publicly urged Caesars Entertainment to sell itself. (Reuters)• BlackRock and KKR are reportedly in talks to invest as much as $5 billion in Abu Dhabi’s oil pipeline network. (FT)• PepsiCo agreed to buy Muscle Milk from Hormel for an undisclosed amount, the first acquisition under its new C.E.O. (Bloomberg)• Just Inc., the maker of egg-free mayonnaise, is reportedly seeking $200 million in new funding. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• A majority of Americans back Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a system of universal child care, which would be paid for by her plan to increase taxes on the wealthy. (NYT)• The Trump administration wants California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money spent on the state’s high-speed rail efforts. (NYT)• A federal ethics watchdog refused to certify financial disclosures by the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. (CNBC)Tech• Microsoft says hackers associated with Russian intelligence tried to breach European think tanks and nonprofit organizations in the run-up to elections in May. (NYT)• Germany is reportedly leaning toward allowing Huawei technology in its wireless networks. A British defense think tank has called the use of the Chinese company’s technology on 5G networks “irresponsible.” (WSJ, FT)• Blockchains were supposed to be unhackable. Maybe they’re not. (MIT Technology Review)• A federal judge delayed a lawsuit about a Pentagon cloud computing contract — that Amazon was expected to win — over “new information” about possible conflicts of interest in the procurement process. (WSJ)• QuadrigaCX customers are trying to hunt down funds currently locked away because they’re secured by a password known only to the company’s late C.E.O. (WSJ)Best of the rest• McKinsey & Company will return $15 million in fees to resolve an investigation into allegations that it did not make required disclosures while working on bankruptcies. (NYT)• Nissan and Renault look set to clash over whether they should share the same new chairman. (FT)• The extradition to the U.S. of Roger Ng, a former Goldman Sachs banker who faces fraud charges over his involvement in the 1MDB scandal, could be delayed. (Bloomberg)• Why HSBC’s bankers should prepare for lower bonuses. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Lacking financial joy? “How to ‘Marie Kondo’ your investment portfolio.” (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Armchair investors have been selling stock. So have pension funds and mutual funds, as well as a whole other category of investors — nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms and personal trusts. The stock market is off to its best start since 1987, but these investors are expected to dump hundreds of billions of dollars of shares this year.So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves. American corporations flush with cash from last year’s tax cuts and a growing economy are buying back their own shares at an extraordinary clip. They have good reason: Buybacks allow them to return cash to shareholders, burnish key measures of financial performance and goose their share prices.The surge in buybacks reflects a fundamental shift in how the market is operating, cementing the position of corporations as the single largest source of demand for American stocks. The binge has helped sustain a bull market approaching its 10th birthday, even in the face of political, international and economic uncertainty. Since the market rally began in March 2009, the S&P 500 has risen more than 300 percent as the United States recovered from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. But few expect those kinds of gains over the next decade. Facing the prospect of a period of relatively low returns — or even a bear market for stocks — many investors are eager to protect their gains or to find more appealing investments, like emerging markets and corporate bonds, outside the American stock market. “There’s no reason to be a hog,” said Rich Robben, interim chief investment officer of the Kentucky Retirement Systems, which manages more than $17 billion in the state’s retirement and insurance funds. “We’ve all eaten at the public equity trough very well for 10 years now. And we felt it was just time to reduce that exposure a bit.”Mr. Robben said his pension fund, which pays benefits to more than 100,000 retired state and county workers, has been cutting its stake in the domestic stock market for 18 months. Such prudence paid off late last year, when concerns about a sluggish global economy, rising interest rates and slowing corporate profits hit the market. The S&P 500 fell 14 percent in the fourth quarter, and 9 percent in December alone. That was the worst monthly performance since February 2009, and badly shook investor confidence. Since the worst of the sell-off, on Dec. 24, the S&P 500 is up roughly 19 percent. But data show that many investors remain nervous: In every week this year, money has flowed out of domestic stock market mutual funds and exchange-traded funds — as much as $15 billion in the last week of January, according to EPFR Global, which tracks flows into and out of funds. These investors, overwhelmingly individuals, have moved money into bonds and cash. Henry Crutcher has missed a bit of the rebound. Mr. Crutcher, a 44-year-old software company owner in Atlanta, saw December’s crack in the stock market as a buying opportunity and moved roughly 10 percent of his portfolio from cash into a Russell 2000 exchange-traded fund. After enjoying a couple weeks of rising stock prices, he sold it, missing much of the roughly 10 percent of additional gains that have come since mid-January.“Right now I’m partially invested,” Mr. Crutcher said. “I’m not totally sitting on the sidelines. But I’m more on the sidelines than I think I should be.”Survey data suggests portfolio managers at many mutual funds and hedge funds have also been skittish about chasing the market higher. A survey of global fund managers by Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month reported that those holding more money in cash than usual outnumbered their stock-friendly counterparts by 44 percentage points — the biggest margin since January 2009. Such statistics suggest that many investors failed to capitalize on the sharp snapback in stocks early this year. “The speed of the rally is uncomfortable,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “To turn from a seller to a buyer in a week is, again, psychologically very tough for people.”Corporations, however, don’t seem to be experiencing such angst. In the fourth quarter last year, American companies bought an estimated $240 billion of their own shares, according to an analysis by the Goldman Sachs team that handles stock buybacks for major companies. That’s nearly 60 percent higher than during the same period in 2017. More buybacks are coming. The Union Pacific railroad has bought nearly $32 billion in its own shares since 2007, and this month authorized buying over $20 billion more. The tech equipment giant Cisco has spent roughly $20 billion on buybacks in the past year, and has authorizations to spend another $24 billion. And Bank of America, which planned to buy $20 billion of its own shares by the end of June, just added $2.5 billion on top of that, the bank said this month.Besides returning cash to shareholders, buybacks offer companies two crucial benefits. They increase demand for a stock, helping to prop up share prices. Buybacks also improve a key gauge of profitability closely tracked by investors and analysts: When a company buys back shares, the same profits are spread over the smaller number of shares still outstanding, improving their earnings-per-share number. So far this year, companies have announced plans to repurchase a total of more than $190 billion of their own shares. That is only slightly behind last year’s pace of buyback announcements. And last year was a record for buybacks, as companies, in part thanks to the Trump administration’s tax cut, gobbled $910 billion of their shares, according to an analysis by Goldman Sachs. Before the early 1980s, buying shares with corporate money was considered a legal gray area because it might open a company up to charges of manipulating its share price. In 1982, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule that allowed share repurchases, provided they followed certain rules.Since then, stock buybacks have largely replaced dividends as companies’ preferred way to return to shareholders the cash they can’t spend productively. Shareholders like buybacks because they reduce the numbers of shares outstanding, which results in each remaining share being worth a bigger slice of the company. Taxes on buybacks can also be deferred until investors sell the shares, which are then taxed as capital gains. While share buybacks tend to increase companies’ share prices, critics blame them for stymieing corporate investment, hiring and wages. They argue that when a company spends its cash on buybacks, it leaves less money available for long-term capital spending and wages. Supporters of buybacks argue, however, that companies won’t make new investments or increase hiring if they don’t see a profitable reason to do so. They contend that banning buybacks would simply result in higher dividend payments and corporate cash holdings or a surge in mergers and acquisitions. Senators Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, and Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, said this month that they planned to introduce legislation that would limit buybacks for companies that did not pay their workers at least a $15 an hour, among other criteria. Also this month, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said he planned to introduce a bill that would change the preferential tax treatment of buybacks, though the details of such an approach remain unclear. But even if such proposals were enacted — and few Republicans have voiced support for Mr. Rubio’s idea — it’s not clear that they would derail the stock market’s ever-higher march. A number of other factors — most notably the Federal Reserve’s abrupt turn away from its clockwork pattern of interest-rate increases — have combined to restore confidence since the brutal sell-off that left the S&P 500 down nearly 20 percent for the year on Christmas Eve.The arrival of a solid, if unspectacular, batch of fourth-quarter earnings reports also quelled some investors’ fears about the outlook for the global economy and corporate profits.But the persistent flow of corporate money into the stock market has been a pivotal element in its recent rise. “Buybacks are likely the No. 1 cause,” said Brian Reynolds, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, a Canadian asset management and brokerage firm. Buybacks’ importance to the rally means any legislative push that results in less activity could act as a headwind to stocks, said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at the brokerage firm Weeden & Company. But if such changes don’t gain a foothold, corporate buying will most likely remain a cornerstone of the stock market in the coming years. This year alone, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated, corporations will be by far the largest buyer of shares, with net purchases of $700 billion. Traditional investors like mutual funds, pensions, endowments and individuals are expected to be net sellers, parting with roughly $400 billion in shares. Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Simultaneous rebounds in the stock and bond markets are sending conflicting signals about the direction of the United States economy.The S&P 500 is off to its best start to a year in nearly a decade, up 11 percent so far on optimism about economic growth in the second half of 2019.Bond investors have taken a more pessimistic view on the economy’s fate. Prices on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have risen this year, pushing down its yield to 2.69 percent, from 3.23 percent just three months ago. Yields fall when bond prices rise.Stock and bond prices are not supposed to rise and fall in tandem. Historically, when investors fret about the future, they pull money out of stock markets and buy relatively safe United States Treasury securities. This dual stock-bond rally has added to doubts about the current rebound in stock prices.Investors have plenty of cause to be worried about the economy. The trade war between the United States and China has continued to drag on economies across the globe and on corporate earnings. Hopes that the two countries will strike an agreement have increased, but significant differences remain in the talks.Behind the dual rally is the Federal Reserve’s decision last month to pause its interest rate increases. The Fed’s shift has left investors in a familiar situation: an economy that isn’t strong enough to compel the Fed to raise rates but is strong enough for corporate America to keep expanding its bottom line.That is the dynamic that has dominated throughout the post-crisis bull market when stocks marched higher, while bond yields plumbed lows. And with the United States economy expected to grow more than 2.5 percent this year and corporate profits forecast to rise 5 percent, it’s one that could prove supportive of stocks in the coming months.But how long this so-called Goldilocks scenario can persist will depend on the Fed’s plan for rates and the United States-China trade negotiations.Investors have grown increasingly convinced that the Fed will not raise rates this year, and some are wagering that the central bank will even cut rates by the end of 2019. This confidence that rates will remain low has made stock returns more appealing and reduced investors’ anxiety about how higher borrowing costs for companies and consumers would crimp the economy.But it’s far from certain that the Fed will hold steady for all of 2019. Minutes from the Fed’s January policy meeting show a divergence among officials, with “several” saying they believed it would be appropriate to raise rates again later this year “if the economy evolved as they expected.”On the trade front, President Trump has indicated that he is prepared to extend the March 2 deadline for a deal with China, when he has threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. An extension would avoid the worst outcome for the markets, but the longer the talks go on, the more the trade war will drag on the global economy and corporate earnings.And that would raise doubts about the second-half pickup on which investors seem to be counting.To the Editor:Re “Workers Before Buybacks,” by Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders (Op-Ed, Feb. 4), calling for the limitation of corporate stock buybacks:The senators seem to believe that they know how best to allocate capital across our $20 trillion economy. Limiting stock buybacks disincentivizes aspiring entrepreneurs to go public and hinders individual shareholders and retirees from building equity.Management and boards of directors for public companies have a fiduciary obligation to maximize long-term appreciation for their shareholders. This requires a thorough knowledge of the company’s growth, capital needs and stock valuation. Policymakers interfering with this fiduciary obligation undermine the free market, possibly leading to unintended consequences for the investor.As shareholder values fall, stock returns to investors will be noncompetitive, and the spotlight will shine on the leaders of the company that made poor capital allocation decisions. Government policy has no business meddling with capital allocation. Boards should take full responsibility for the decisions that affect their shareholders.French Hill WashingtonThe writer, an Arkansas Republican, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee.Drug company executives faced tough questions from Congress on Tuesday as they attempted to explain why, thanks to high drug prices, per capita spending on pharmaceuticals in the United States is double the average of other advanced countries. For decades, American drug makers have justified these high prices by asserting that the higher profits they generate fund research that accelerates the development of new medicines. Our data shows, however, that these companies spend every penny of their profits on distributions to shareholders in the forms of cash dividends and stock buybacks.Because the greater part of management compensation is linked to stock price, the prime beneficiaries of this abuse of corporate profits are the executives who claim that high drug prices redound to the common good. At the same time, drug giants such as Merck and Pfizer seem to have become focused more on buying companies with successful new drugs rather than developing their own.Congress has been raising alarms over drug prices for years. In 1985, Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat who was chairman of the House health subcommittee, accused the pharmaceutical industry of “gouging the American public,” driven by “greed on a massive scale.” But the escalation of drug prices has only gotten worse, as documented in various Senate investigations.Despite their claims, the big American drug companies have not been using profits from high prices to ramp up investment in drug development. Our research shows that for 2008 through 2017, 17 pharmaceutical companies in the S. & P. 500 distributed just over 100 percent of their combined profits to shareholders, $300 billion as buybacks and $290 billion as dividends. These distributions were 12 percent greater than what these companies spent on research and development.With most of their compensation coming from exercising stock options and stock awards, senior executives benefit immensely. We gathered data on the 500 highest-paid executives in the United States from 2008 through 2017. The number who came from the drug industry ranged from 21 (in 2008 and 2011) to 42 (in 2014). The total compensation of those 42 executives averaged about $73 million, compared with an average of an already over-the-top $32 million for all 500 in 2014.A total of 88 percent of the 2014 compensation was based on stock. In 2017, 28 drug executives in the top 500 averaged more than $41 million in total compensation, with 83 percent stock-based. By jacking up product prices and distributing the increased profits to shareholders, executives lift stock prices and their take-home pay.Our research for the Institute for New Economic Thinking demonstrates that these companies, even when they show substantial R. & D. spending on their books, do not have much to show for it. For example, Merck distributed 133 percent of its profits to shareholders from 2008 to 2017, and Pfizer 107 percent. Although both companies recorded large sums spent on R. & D. — Merck $80 billion and Pfizer $81 billion over the decade — these companies generated most of their revenues by acquiring companies with patented drugs on the market, rather than by developing their own new drugs. Since 2001, by our analysis, Pfizer has had significant revenues from only four internally originated and developed products. Since Merck’s merger with Schering-Plough in 2009, it has had only two blockbuster drugs, of which only one was the result of its own research. The public foots the bill for this behavior. Not only do we pay high drug prices, our tax dollars supply more than $30 billion per year for life-sciences research through the National Institutes of Health. Yet, like most American companies, the drug industry claims that its corporations need to pay lower corporate taxes to remain competitive globally. European pharmaceutical companies such as Roche and AstraZeneca, on the other hand, have used the same American drug ecosystem — profits from high drug prices and scientific advances resulting from government research funding — to become leaders in medical innovation. Roche dominates the market for specialty drugs in oncology and immunotherapy, while AstraZeneca has a strong pipeline in the latest phases of development. Merck and Pfizer, in comparison, have fallen seriously behind.Congress should put an end to this madness. The government funds medical research and grants the patents and other intellectual property protections that make the pharmaceutical industry’s products financially viable. It should therefore regulate drug prices. The United States should also redesign executive pay to reward drug company leaders who actually bring new innovations to market, and ban most forms of stock buybacks, which are nothing but a manipulation of the stock market that makes the rich even richer. Reinvesting the hundreds of billions of dollars that American drug companies are squandering on buybacks would be a big step on the path to affordable health care for all.William Lazonick, emeritus professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell, is the president of the Academic-Industry Research Network, where Öner Tulum, a postdoctoral fellow at SOAS, University of London, is a senior researcher. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.The stock market rout that occurred at the end of last year hurt Berkshire Hathaway’s 2018 profits, at least on paper.The conglomerate controlled by Warren E. Buffett suffered losses of $25.4 billion in the fourth quarter, according to Berkshire’s annual report that was released on Saturday. The company owns $173 billion of stocks and the market’s swoon in the fourth quarter helped cause losses of $22.7 billion on those securities. Berkshire also recorded a $3 billion noncash loss related to its large stake in Kraft Heinz, the struggling food company. (Stocks, of course, have recovered this year, and Berkshire’s losses may now be smaller.)In his annual letter to Berkshire’s shareholders that accompanied its results, Mr. Buffett urged investors to focus on the performance of Berkshire Hathaway’s broad array of companies, which includes insurers, energy firms, railways and manufacturers. These firms did well last year, posting a 36 percent increase in earnings.Before 2018, Berkshire did not include the performance of its stock holdings in its income statement, unless it sold the shares. But a new accounting rule requires that the company include the paper gains and losses. That is something Mr. Buffett has criticized, saying the rule would cause “wild and capricious” swings in Berkshire’s bottom line. In this year’s letter, he wrote, “Indeed, in the fourth quarter, a period of high volatility in stock prices, we experienced several days with a ‘profit’ or ‘loss’ of more than $4 billion.”Problems at Kraft Heinz, which on Thursday reported weak fourth-quarter earnings and a $15.4 billion write-down, also weighed on Berkshire, which owns a nearly 27 percent stake in the food company.If Kraft, among Berkshire’s biggest holdings, fails to revive its business, Mr. Buffett’s reputation as a savvy investor could take a hit. His partner in the food maker, a Brazilian investment firm called 3G Capital, has pursued a strict cost-cutting strategy that may now be showing diminishing returns.Here’s a look at some of the other highlights from the letter:What to do with all its cash? BuybacksBerkshire joined the buyback boom last year, modestly.The company bought back $418 million of its own shares during the final three months of 2018, bringing its total for the year to just over $1.3 billion.That activity will probably continue. “It is likely that — over time — Berkshire will be a significant repurchaser of its shares,” Mr. Buffett wrote in his letter to shareholders.Flush with cash from the $1.5 trillion tax cut, American companies bought back almost $800 billion of their own stock last year, a record amount. By reducing the number of shares outstanding, the buybacks can help boost the companies’ stock prices. And companies often buy back their shares when they believe they have nothing better to do with their money than return capital to shareholders.There are signs of that at Berkshire. Over the years, Mr. Buffett has mostly avoided repurchasing Berkshire’s shares, arguing that he could generate better returns for shareholders through investments.But as the price to acquire big companies has risen in recent years, Berkshire hasn’t made any big deals. That has led Mr. Buffett, who in the past has disparaged corporate buybacks, to consider repurchasing Berkshire’s stock.This summer, Berkshire lifted its restrictions on the price at which price Mr. Buffett could buy back shares. In the third quarter, it bought back $928 million worth.So far, Berkshire’s buyback spending has been fairly modest, and in his letter, Mr. Buffett warned of caution in the future.“Obviously, repurchases should be price-sensitive: Blindly buying an overpriced stock is value destructive, a fact lost on many promotional or ever-optimistic C.E.O.s,” Mr. Buffett wrote.Berkshire vs. the S&P 500One of Mr. Buffett’s goals each year is to beat the S&P 500 stock market index. Last year, Berkshire did.In 2018, the company’s book value rose 0.4 percent and its stock price climbed 2.8 percent. By comparison, the S&P 500 lost 4.4 percent, counting dividends.For years, Mr. Buffett’s preferred measure of Berkshire’s performance was the company’s book value as compared with the S&P 500, and he would highlight the annual rise and fall of both on a table in the letter.But beating the S&P 500 became more difficult as Berkshire grew and shifted to buying whole companies. In 2014, Mr. Buffett added the annual performance of Berkshire’s stock price to the table.“The fact is that the annual change in Berkshire’s book value — which makes its farewell appearance on page 2 — is a metric that has lost the relevance it once had,” Mr. Buffett wrote in this year’s letter.Why no deal making?Berkshire has grown by spending large chunks of money to acquire other companies. That remains part of its long-term plan, according to Mr. Buffett’s letter, but the current business climate means that it’s temporarily on hiatus.“In the years ahead,” he wrote, “we hope to move much of our excess liquidity into businesses that Berkshire will permanently own. The immediate prospects for that, however, are not good: Prices are sky-high for businesses possessing decent long-term prospects.And if you were in any doubt about Mr. Buffett’s appetite for huge deals, he paints a vivid picture about just how much he’d like to bag one.“We continue, nevertheless, to hope for an elephant-sized acquisition,” he wrote. “Even at our ages of 88 and 95 — I’m the young one — that prospect is what causes my heart and Charlie’s to beat faster. (Just writing about the possibility of a huge purchase has caused my pulse rate to soar.)”Don’t fret the United States’ budget deficitMr. Buffett also seems to have become more relaxed about the federal budget deficit, which has recently been getting bigger.In the 2018 annual report, he wrote: “Those who regularly preach doom because of government budget deficits (as I regularly did myself for many years) might note that our country’s national debt has increased roughly 400-fold during the last of my 77-year periods.”Investors buying gold to try and protect themselves from the rising debt and the prospect of ballooning deficits would have made a mere fraction of what they would have earned in the United States stock market over the 77 year period, Mr. Buffett noted. (Mr. Buffett first invested in an American business 77 years ago.)“The magical metal was no match for the American mettle,” he said in the report.Succession plans remain a secretEvery year, investors carefully read Mr. Buffett’s letter for clues about Berkshire’s succession plans. They didn’t get any on Saturday.Mr. Buffett did, however, champion his two most senior lieutenants. At the start of 2018, Berkshire Hathaway promoted two of its longtime executives, Gregory E. Abel and Ajit Jain, to oversee the company’s businesses. Mr. Abel became vice chairman of the conglomerate’s non-insurance businesses; Mr. Jain is vice chairman of Berkshire’s insurance operations.In his letter on Saturday, Mr. Buffett said this: “I want to give you some good news — really good news — that is not reflected in our financial statements. It concerns the management changes we made in early 2018, when Ajit Jain was put in charge of all insurance activities and Greg Abel was given authority over all other operations. These moves were overdue. Berkshire is now far better managed than when I alone was supervising operations. Ajit and Greg have rare talents, and Berkshire blood flows through their veins.”Quips and quotesMr. Buffett’s annual letter has become known for its investment advice and folksy wisdom as well as a few corny jokes. Here are some of the best lines from this year’s. (The Charlie they mention is Charles T. Munger, Mr. Buffett’s vice-chairman at Berkshire Hathaway.)On accounting fraud: “Over the years, Charlie and I have seen all sorts of bad corporate behavior, both accounting and operational, induced by the desire of management to meet Wall Street expectations. What starts as an ‘innocent’ fudge in order to not disappoint ‘the Street’ — say, trade-loading at quarter-end, turning a blind eye to rising insurance losses, or drawing down a ‘cookie-jar’ reserve — can become the first step toward full-fledged fraud. Playing with the numbers ‘just this once’ may well be the C.E.O.’s intent; it’s seldom the end result.”On paying tax: “Begin with an economic reality: Like it or not, the U.S. Government ‘owns’ an interest in Berkshire’s earnings of a size determined by Congress. In effect, our country’s Treasury Department holds a special class of our stock — call this holding the AA shares — that receives large ‘dividends’ (that is, tax payments) from Berkshire. In 2017, as in many years before, the corporate tax rate was 35 percent, which meant that the Treasury was doing very well with its AA shares.”On using debt: “Many managers, it should be noted, will disagree with this policy, arguing that significant debt juices the returns for equity owners. And these more venturesome C.E.O.s will be right most of the time. At rare and unpredictable intervals, however, credit vanishes and debt becomes financially fatal. A Russian roulette equation — usually win, occasionally die — may make financial sense for someone who gets a piece of a company’s upside but does not share in its downside. But that strategy would be madness for Berkshire. Rational people don’t risk what they have and need for what they don’t have and don’t need.”SAN FRANCISCO — When Uber and Lyft go public this year, their founders, top executives and investors are set to reap billions of dollars in new wealth.But one group that helped build up the ride-hailing companies will miss out on most of the rewards: their drivers.That’s because while Uber’s and Lyft’s full-time employees and investors own company stock that they can convert into cash after the initial public offerings, the millions of drivers who ferry passengers around for the services are independent contractors. That has made them ineligible for stock grants — and bystanders to the coming I.P.O. bonanza.Now Uber and Lyft, facing the growing inequity between its stockholders and its drivers, are pursuing measures to address the gap. Both intend to set up programs to give cash to some drivers, enabling them to buy company stock at the time of the I.P.O., according to two people who have been briefed on the plans. The drivers can also keep the cash as a bonus, said the people, who declined to be named because they were not authorized to speak publicly.The programs will not give drivers a major share of Uber’s and Lyft’s stock. Lyft plans to give $1,000 each to drivers who have completed 10,000 rides for the service; those who have done 20,000 rides will receive $10,000, one of the people said. Uber is still mulling its cash program and payout amounts, but they will also be tiered, another person said.Some in Silicon Valley greeted the move as an awakening by Uber and Lyft. Eric Ries, author of the start-up world’s bible, “The Lean Startup,” and chief executive of LTSE, a new stock exchange, said the move hinted at these companies’ priorities.“The next generation of companies understand their obligation to share power and prosperity with the community that made them successful,” he said. “It’s no longer optional.”But many Uber and Lyft drivers had a different view. Don Creery, an Uber and Lyft driver who previously worked on a campaign in Seattle to win collective-bargaining rights for ride-hailing drivers, called the programs a “token gesture.”“I think we would probably rather get what we wanted all along, which is a fair rate of pay and make enough money to buy stock in companies that might actually be valuable,” Mr. Creery said. Still, he gave the companies credit for “certainly acknowledging us.”Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, an organization that represents taxi and ride-hail drivers, called the efforts by Lyft and Uber “a slap in the face,” especially since the companies “are going to go public on the sweat of the drivers.”The issue is galling to many drivers because the public offerings of Uber and Lyft are set to mint a new class of billionaires out of an elite group of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors. Uber is estimated to go public at a valuation of as much as $120 billion, and one of its founders, Travis Kalanick, has already become a billionaire by selling some of his company stock to private investors. Lyft, which is likely to unveil its initial public offering prospectus on Friday, was last valued in the private market at just over $15 billion.Drivers, who have long been at the heart of the ride-hailing business, have made attempts to change their status with Uber and Lyft so that they can be classified as full-time employees. Becoming full-time employees would also give them access to health care benefits and other perks.But the companies have successfully beaten back these efforts. In California, Uber and Lyft have fended off lawsuits that aimed to win employee status for drivers. In New York, Lyft recently sued to overturn new legislation that would give drivers a minimum hourly wage of about $17.Uber and Lyft declined to comment on drivers’ reception of the programs. The cash programs were earlier reported by The Wall Street Journal.Uber has tried to improve its relationship with drivers over the past 18 months, allowing them to accept tips for the first time starting in 2017. In October, Uber asked in a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission to be allowed to grant equity to drivers even though they are not employees. Uber did not hear back from the S.E.C., one of the people said.Ultimately, the cash programs would not give drivers the opportunity to earn money from stock in the same way that employees do, said Mary Russell, a lawyer and founder of Stock Option Counsel, a firm that consults with employees on stock compensation.“It doesn’t seem like a meaningful change to their compensation, in my view,” she said. “It’s more a thank-you for the past and a one-time event.”Five years ago, the classic car market had just completed a turnaround that left even seasoned observers surprised by its speed. The deep recession that began in 2007 had dealt the same initial blow to vintage car prices that it did to the Dow and to the real estate market.The downturn erased four or five years’ worth of gains for collectible cars, by many estimates. But by 2014, most had fully recouped their pre-recession values, and the market has maintained an even keel.There are some signs, however, that the good times may be coming to an end. A mix of factors is at play, including demographics, changes to tax laws and general uncertainty.For auctions in 2018 and early 2019, the sell-through rate (the percentage of cars meeting reserve and selling) for million-dollar-plus cars has dropped about 20 percent from the previous year, according to Hagerty, a classic-car insurer in Michigan. That’s the lowest rate since Hagerty started tracking the statistic in 2008.The wealthiest and most discriminating collectors may simply be taking a pass on the current offerings, or “it may be a sign that the savviest collectors are sensing a change in the tone of the market,” said Brian Rabold, vice president for valuation at Hagerty.If the recent crop of cars isn’t persuading elite collectors to raise their paddles, the question then becomes why aren’t more owners of blue-chip cars selling them?Cam Ingram, a collector and restorer in North Carolina, pointed to last year’s changes in Section 1031 of the tax code, which had allowed the capital gains tax on a sale to be deferred if the proceeds were used to buy another collectible — artwork, say, or cars.“One factor that few people are acknowledging at the moment is the effect of the loss of 1031 exchanges,” Mr. Ingram said. “Top collectors were able to strategically play with positions in their collections to avoid realizing taxes on gains. Now they have to be far more disciplined. The change in the law is affecting both supply and demand.”With the economy still running strong, he added, few top collectors are in a position where they need to sell to free up cash.Both Mr. Ingram and Michael Sheehan, a dealer-broker of vintage Ferraris in Southern California, acknowledged the perception among top collectors that now might be the time to hold the best of the best. When those cars do sell, they often do so off the radar and at still very robust prices, they said. Private sales have always taken place among elite collectors, but now comparatively few big private sales are the exception to the general rule that the top of the market is cooling off.Demographics, too, are influencing this market.“Every day, I get the same calls: Guy dies, his kids don’t want the cars, and they want me to sell them. Or it’s knee surgery, hip surgery or prostate cancer and the owner simply can’t enjoy the car anymore,” Mr. Sheehan said.What Mr. Sheehan describes is most likely the vanguard of a wave of baby boomers getting out of the market, and nobody seems to have a clear idea of what comes next.When the classic-car market rebounded after the recession, it was still boomer-driven, and the very top end came back first, in 2011, according to Hagerty data.“The stock market was still in a slump, and cars were being talked about as one of the few asset classes where good returns could be had,” Mr. Ingram said. “By the next year, the middle of the market (cars costing between $250,000 and $1 million) returned to health, and the year after that, the entry level got active again.”If there is a shift now, it’s still in its early days, and the market may be mirroring its resurgence from 2011 to 2013. The broad entry level continues to be robust, according to Mr. Ingram and Mr. Rabold, while the top end is sluggish, a possible leading indicator of a general slump.The United States economy is in its longest period of growth on record, and most observers predict a downturn reasonably soon. That would certainly affect the classic-car market. But it’s the demographic shift, combined with the potential for another 2008-like crash, that seems to worry the keenest market-watchers the most.“Several things are in play here,” Mr. Sheehan said. “There’s general uncertainty and concern about things like the world economy and Brexit. The boomers are leaving the market in droves.“Younger people can’t drive a stick shift,” he added, “and they can’t afford the cars at the level that the boomers have driven the prices to — they’re busy paying record money for housing, education debt and health care.”At the moment, the market seems to be in a holding pattern.“Gen-Xers and millennials are still priced out of the market,” Mr. Sheehan said. “The last time that the market corrected, in 2008, it turned around quickly after it became apparent that the recession wouldn’t turn into a depression. Baby boomer money was still in play, and it quickly drove prices back to pre-correction levels.”That may not happen again. “The boomers aren’t going to be around to prop the market back up after the next one,” Mr. Sheehan said.What it all means is debatable. Mr. Ingram and Mr. Sheehan both believe that some form of correction is inevitable as baby boomers complete their exit from the market over the next 10 to 15 years. Their cars aren’t going to disappear, but their ability to spend will.“How Gen-Xers and millennials will value those cars,” Mr. Ingram said, “is the $64,000 question.”Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Acquisitions of American biotech companies are surging, and so are the prices that buyers are willing to pay.Just two months into the year, the value of deals for biotech and pharmaceutical companies in the United States has reached $146 billion, according to Dealogic. That is more than what was announced in all of 2018, 2017 or 2016, and it accounts for 40 percent of all takeover announcements in the United States so far.Major drug makers are in a race to find their next blockbuster. As the complexity of drugs has increased, though, so has the cost to develop them. That has made buying a biotech company with a promising candidate an increasingly popular way in recent years for the largest pharmaceutical companies to replenish their drug pipeline.Competition for the takeover targets, however, has also meant big pharma companies are having to pay high prices. That is being reflected in the premiums being offered in the deals this year. The high premiums are also a result of the battering that biotech stocks took during the market’s downturn in late 2018.When it acquired Celgene, a cancer-focused biotech, for $81 billion in the largest deal of the year, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid 52 percent more than Celgene’s stock price over the prior month. Eli Lilly paid Loxo Oncology’s shareholders a 74 percent premium this year, and Roche agreed this week to pay a 164 percent premium for a gene therapy company, Spark Therapeutics.On average, acquirers are paying 120 percent above where the target biotech and pharmaceutical company’s shares had traded over the previous 30 days, the largest average premium in at least two decades, according to Dealogic.Many had predicted the wave of consolidation in the biotech industry last year: Uncertainty around drug pricing policy and the fate of the Affordable Care Act had eased, and major drugmakers were armed with a cash windfall from the tax cut. Yet after a strong first half of the year, a weakening global economy and tumult in the markets quickly dampened deal-making.That stock market decline late last year also left many potential targets cheaper, and more attractive, takeover candidates. From its 2018 high in late August to its low on Dec. 24, the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index tumbled 27 percent, compared with a 13 percent decline over that period for health care companies in the S&P 500 as a whole.That slide has helped make the premiums being paid for biotech companies this year look eye-popping, which has unnerved shareholders of some of the buyers. But when taken from where the target’s shares traded before the market downturn at the end of last year, the premiums look more reasonable.Bristol-Myers’s offer for Celgene, for example, came to $102.43 a share on the day it was announced. That was below where Celgene’s stock traded at the start of 2018.In the cases of Loxo and Spark, the prices offered were just 23 percent above the highs the two companies’ stock had hit in the past year. That’s roughly in line with the average premium paid in all deals last year.SAN FRANCISCO — Pinterest confidentially filed paperwork to go public, according to two people familiar with the decision, joining a stampede of high-profile start-ups heading toward the public markets. The company, which has an app and a website that allow people to save images and links to virtual pin boards, filed its paperwork with the Securities and Exchange Commission in early February, the people said. They requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the filing publicly.Private market investors have valued Pinterest at $12 billion. In September, it was expected to top $700 million in revenue last year, a 50 percent increase from 2017. At the time, it had 250 million monthly active users.Mike Mayzel, a Pinterest spokesman, declined to comment.The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that Pinterest had filed the paperwork with regulators. The stampede of initial public offerings by highly valued Silicon Valley companies has intensified in recent weeks. Lyft is preparing to begin trading its shares in late April. Its ride-hailing rival, Uber, which filed its initial paperwork with the S.E.C. last year, is expected to follow. Investment bankers have estimated that Uber could be worth $120 billion on the public market. Slack, an office messaging app company, has also filed to go public. The company was last valued at $7.1 billion by private investors. Postmates, a food delivery app worth nearly $2 billion, has also filed confidential paperwork to go public. Pinterest has plenty of cash: It raised around $1.5 billion in venture capital funding and has come close to profitability in the past. But it is unclear how investors will view the company, which makes money from online advertising and competes against Facebook, Instagram, Google, Twitter and Snap for market share.The company is unusual in Silicon Valley for its avoidance of hype and media coverage. That reluctance has frustrated some investors and executives, leading to executive turnover in recent years. But others view Pinterest’s reserved, slow and steady approach as the reason for its success. In contrast to its social media peers like Facebook and Twitter, Pinterest has taken bold steps to eradicate potentially harmful disinformation from its platform. The company recently removed search results for content related to vaccines to prevent false anti-vaccination memes and information from spreading.Ben Silbermann, Evan Sharp and Paul Sciarra founded Pinterest in 2010. The company’s growth took off soon after, particularly among Midwestern women. In recent years, user growth had slowed, but Mr. Silbermann, the chief executive, resisted Silicon Valley’s typical tricks for juicing the numbers in the short term, favoring what he called “quality growth.” “There’s a natural rate at which you can scale a company that’s healthy,” he told The New York Times last year.A year ago, the company hired Francoise Brougher as its chief operating officer, a move that many people in the industry saw as a sign that Pinterest would soon tap the public markets. Ms. Brougher helped take Square, the payments company, public in 2015. In November, in a sign that it wanted to promote itself more than it had in the past, the company hired Andréa Mallard, formerly a marketer at Gap Inc.’s Athleta brand, as its chief marketing officer.Some of the companies from this generation of start-ups plan to do nontraditional public offerings called direct listings.In a direct listing, companies do not go on I.P.O. “road shows” to pitch their stock to potential investors, nor do they issue new shares or arrange stock sales in advance of the listing. This avoids lockup periods when a stock first goes on the market. During that period, insiders cannot sell their stock. The option is attractive for companies that have no need to tap the public markets for more money. It has piqued the interest of highly valued start-ups that have raised billions from private market investors.Spotify, the music streaming company, had a successful direct listing last year. Slack plans to follow in its footsteps with a similar transaction in the coming months.But Pinterest plans to pursue a traditional I.P.O., one of the people familiar with the situation said.There’s been some good news on global trade lately: A full-scale U.S.-China trade war appears to be on hold, and may be avoided altogether.The bad news is that if we do make a trade deal with China, it will basically be because the Chinese are offering Donald Trump a personal political payoff. At the same time, a much more dangerous trade conflict with Europe is looming. And the Europeans, who still have this peculiar thing called rule of law, can’t bribe their way to trade peace.The background: Last year the Trump administration imposed tariffs on a wide range of Chinese products, covering more than half of China’s exports to the United States. But that might have been only the beginning: Trump had threatened to impose much higher tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports starting this Friday.What was the motivation for these tariffs? Remarkably, there doesn’t seem to be any strong constituency demanding protectionism; if anything, major industries have been lobbying against Trump’s trade moves, and the stock market clearly dislikes trade conflict, going down when tensions rise and recovering when they ease.So trade conflict is essentially Trump’s personal vendetta — one that he is able to pursue because U.S. international trade law gives the president enormous discretion to impose tariffs on a variety of grounds. Predicting trade policy is therefore about figuring out what’s going on in one man’s mind.Now, there are real reasons for the U.S. to be angry at China, and demand policy changes. Above all, China notoriously violates the spirit of international trade rules, de facto restricting foreign companies’ access to its market unless they hand over valuable technology. So you could make a case for U.S. pressure on China — coordinated with other advanced economies! — to stop that practice.But there has been little evidence that Trump is interested in dealing with the real China problem. I was at a trade policy conference over the weekend where experts were asked what Trump really wants; the most popular answer was “tweetable deliveries.”Sure enough, Trump has been crowing about what he portrays as big Chinese concessions, which all seem to involve China’s government ordering companies to buy U.S. agricultural products. In particular, the postponement of the trade war came after a Chinese pledge to buy 10 million tons of soybeans. This will please farmers, although it’s far from clear that it will even make up for the losses they’ve suffered from previous Trump actions.The point, however, is that what China is offering doesn’t at all get at the real U.S. national interests at stake. All it does is give Trump something to tweet about.Oh, and by the way: China’s biggest bank, which happens to be majority-owned by the Chinese government, currently occupies three whole floors in the Trump Tower in Manhattan. It has been planning to reduce its space; it will be interesting to see what happens to that plan now.Meanwhile, the U.S. Commerce Department has prepared a report on imports of European automobiles that, according to the German press, concludes that these imports pose a threat to national security. If this sounds ridiculous, that’s because it is. Indeed, while the Europeans aren’t angels, they do abide by global rules, and it’s hard to accuse them of any major trade sins. Yes, they do have 10 percent tariffs on U.S. cars — but we impose 25 percent tariffs on their light trucks, which makes us more than even.But a department headed by perhaps the most corrupt commerce secretary in history will, of course, conclude whatever Trump wants it to conclude. And this report gives the president the legal authority to get us into a trade war with the European Union.If it happens, this trade war will be immensely damaging. The E.U. is America’s biggest export market, directly accounting for around 2.6 million jobs. Moreover, our economies are very much intermeshed — which is why even the U.S. auto industry is horrified at the possibility that Trump will impose tariffs on cars.But here’s the thing: Unlike the Chinese government, the E.U. can’t order private companies to make splashy purchases of U.S. goods. And it certainly can’t steer business to Trump Organization properties. As a result, the chances of spiraling trade conflict remain high.The point is that when it comes to dealing with Trump and his team, autocracies have an advantage over democracies that follow the rule of law. And trade disputes are arguably the least of it. Think about the push by financially conflicted Trump advisers to sell nuclear technology to the Bone Saw Kingdom, otherwise known as Saudi Arabia. Or think of the influence golf-playing expats seem to be having over Venezuela policy.So while stock markets are happy about the prospects for trade peace with China, the broader picture is deeply disturbing. If we do manage to limit the damage from this confrontation, it will be for the wrong reasons. And the warped motivations governing U.S. foreign policy may yet have deeply destructive consequences, with a trade war far from being the scariest possibility.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.The Bull Market’s Greatest Feat? Sowing DoubtThis stock market rally hasn’t been as intense as many others that preceded it.By Stephen GrocerMarch 9, 2019Ten years ago, when the global financial crisis seemed at its worst, the stock market hit rock bottom.The bull run that has followed now ranks among the greatest rallies of the past century: The S&P 500 has more than quadrupled, adding $17.5 trillion in value, and, of the 11 bull markets since the end of World War II, only the run that ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2000 tops the current one in duration and returns.But despite the superlatives, this rally’s primary characteristic is how much skepticism it generated. The intensity of gains that defined the stock market bubbles of the 1920s and 1990s never developed. Instead, many investors spent the past decade deriding the rally and anticipating its demise.Bull markets are usually driven by a strengthening economy that fuels corporate profits. But the economic scars of the downturn a decade ago were deep and the recovery slow. For much of the past decade, economic growth remained lackluster; corporate earnings, at least until last year, were uninspiring; and the global economy bounced from one crisis to the next. There was the sovereign debt crisis that wracked the eurozone, concerns about the health of China’s economy and its growing debt load, tumbling oil prices that dragged down energy-sector profits, and, most recently, concerns about global economy and trade.True, the bull market never succumbed to these worries (although it came awfully close more than once). Credit for that goes to the world’s central banks whose efforts to keep interest rates low made bond investments and other alternatives unappealing, and kept fueling the stock buying. This is not to say that investors weren’t excited about some stocks. Investors piled into shares of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft and those four stock had a big effect on the S&P 500, particularly in the last few years. Over the past decade, and factoring in dividends, the four biggest tech companies accounted for 9 percent of the gains in the S&P 500, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices.When it comes to actual performance of their shares, Alphabet and Microsoft gained more than 600 percent over the past decade, while Apple jumped nearly 1,400 percent and Amazon surged nearly 2,600 percent.It wasn’t just the tech companies themselves that fared well. The best-performing bank stock over the past decade was SVB Financial, Silicon Valley’s so-called hometown bank, which rose almost 1,900 percent. For all the attention paid to technology shares though, the honor of best-performing stock in the S&P 500 over the past decade actually goes to Ulta Beauty, the cosmetics retailer. Its shares have surged more than 7,000 percent.The Bull Market Began 10 Years Ago. Why Aren’t More People Celebrating?Americans are still scarred by the financial crisis, and the fruits of this decade’s record-breaking rally fell mostly to the rich.By Matt PhillipsMarch 9, 2019The financial system had nearly collapsed. The deepest recession in decades was devouring over 700,000 jobs a month. Roughly $13 trillion in stock market wealth, slowly rebuilt since the dot-com bust, had again been incinerated. It was March 2009. And it was one of the best times in a generation to buy stocks.A decade later, the bull market that began back then ranks among the great rallies in stock-market history. The 305 percent surge in the S&P 500 is the index’s second-best run ever.The rise has generated more than $30 trillion in wealth. Adjusted for inflation, that is the most created during any bull run on record, edging out the $25 trillion in gains during the epic streak from December 1987 to March 2000, which ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble, according to Federal Reserve data.But compared with Americans’ attitudes during that earlier climb, reactions to the latest rally are downright subdued. There has been no frenzy for stock trading. Nobody is quitting an accounting, advertising, or waitressing job to concentrate on day trading.Why so somber? The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily. Fewer people are invested in stocks than before that meltdown, and many of them are wary of taking their gains for granted. That caution could last for decades.“This was probably the most disliked or most suspected rally that we’ve ever had in the stock market,” said Charles Geisst, a professor at Manhattan College who has studied the history of financial markets. Birth of the BullOn March 9, 2009, the day the bull market was born, the stock market, like the economy, was in deep, seemingly existential distress. The S&P 500 was down 57 percent from its 2007 peak. Compounding the pain was the nationwide collapse in home prices, which landed a direct hit on most households’ greatest source of wealth. The one-two punch destroyed the finances of millions of families. Between 2007 and 2010, the median wealth of a household in the United States dropped 44 percent, knocked below 1969 levels.Every crash has a bottom, though, and in March 2009, the Federal Reserve announced that it would spend $1 trillion in newly created dollars on government and mortgage bonds to push interest rates lower. It was the dawn of “quantitative easing” — and, it would turn out, a new bull market. The S&P 500 rose 8.5 percent that month, its best monthly performance in more than six years.“That should have been the signal to everyone that you can go out there and buy stocks with impunity,” said Byron Wien, vice chairman of the private wealth group at Blackstone, the private equity firm.But to buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.Those who could were already well-off. In 2007, the wealthiest 10 percent of American families owned 81 percent of the nation’s household stock market wealth, according Ed Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University who studies the distribution of wealth in the United States. By 2016, they owned 84 percent, he said.The recovery in the stock market made those families even richer, increasing their net worth by double-digit percentages. Median American family wealth, meanwhile, dropped 34 percent.In the past, such episodes of wealth destruction cast long shadows. For much of the 20th century, the financial habits of the American public were heavily influenced by memories of the Great Depression.Even in the 1960s, survey data showed that people who were young during the Great Depression were much less likely to invest in stocks, according to research by two economists, Ulrike Malmendier of the University of California, Berkeley, and Stefan Nagel of the University of Chicago. The 2008 crisis was nowhere near as severe, but a similar dynamic may be affecting people who started their working lives around that time.Gallup survey data shows that in the last decade, an average of 38 percent of Americans under the age of 35 have money invested in the stock market. That compares with 52 percent before the crisis. Playing It SafeEven those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds. In the decade since the bull market began, the share of Americans investing via index funds, which aim to mimic the performance of benchmarks like the S&P 500, has increased significantly. In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.Americans also appear to be less willing than in previous booms to let the rise in stock market wealth on paper lead to a surge in spending. Family savings rates have stayed stubbornly high by historical standards.“Households continue to kind of treat their capital gains, realized or unrealized, more cautiously than they did in the 1990s or the 2000s,” said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at J.P. Morgan.In part, this is because many stock owners are baby boomers, who might have enjoyed spending their stock market gains 20 years ago but are now more worried about preserving wealth as they retire. Fred Wallace, a 64-year-old retired HBO executive in Los Angeles is one of them. When the stock market took a dive in December, he cut his holdings of stock and moved money into cash and bonds.“That allows you to sleep at night because you know that if stocks tank it doesn’t really matter,” Mr. Wallace said. But even among Americans who are just starting their careers, this risk-aversion could linger. Research from Ms. Malmendier and Mr. Nagel, the economists, suggests that enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades. Younger Americans, Ms. Malmendier said, are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.“We don’t see that happening,” she said. “People were scarred from that experience.”The latest news release from the maker of LaCroix sparkling water was quirkier than usual, which is notable for a company whose public statements routinely feature exclamation marks, florid adjectives and colorful fonts that seem lifted straight off a Tumblr page.Late Thursday, the company, National Beverage Corporation, said that its third-quarter sales had dropped and that its profit had plunged almost 40 percent, to $24.8 million.Weak corporate results are not unusual on Wall Street, and they typically come wrapped in statements filled with boilerplate jargon attributed to executives who cite “market headwinds” or “competitive forces.”Nick Caporella, National Beverage’s chief executive, took a different route on Thursday. He blamed “injustice” for the company’s poor performance.In a news release, Mr. Caporella said that National Beverage was “truly sorry for these results” and that “negligence nor mismanagement nor woeful acts of God were not the reasons.”“Much of this was the result of injustice!” he added, without any explanation of what exactly he meant.A company spokesman, Rod Liddle, sought to clarify the comments on Friday. He said Mr. Caporella had been referring to a lawsuit filed against the company in October in Cook County, Ill., on behalf of a customer. The suit claims that LaCroix, which National Beverage markets as “all natural,” has artificial ingredients, including one used by exterminators.“Without any valid test results, somebody makes a complaint and says a brand has ingredients like cockroach insecticide — that’s injustice,” Mr. Liddle said. “You’re guilty without being proven so, without due process.”After the suit was filed, the company issued several responses. In one statement, Mr. Caporella  said: “There is an unspoken phrase within a cult — ‘We got each other’s back!’ Well, there has been a loud cry of support from our LaCroix consumers embracing the brand that they love — Don’t hurt our LaCroix!”Elsewhere in the news release issued Thursday, which carried the title “WE JUST LOVE OUR LACROIX” CONSUMERS CHANT, Mr. Caporella described the difficulty of running a company.“Managing a brand is not so different from caring for someone who becomes handicapped,” he said. “Brands do not see or hear, so they are at the mercy of their owners or care providers who must preserve the dignity and special character that the brand exemplifies.”National Beverage stock, which trades under the ticker FIZZ, was down more than 14 percent in trading on Friday. The company, which has enjoyed a surge of popularity in flavored seltzer recently, has faced new competition from products sold by PepsiCo and Coca-Cola, the soft drink industry’s dominant players.Laurent Grandet, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities, said in a note to clients on Friday that the weak sales, combined with data suggesting consumers were not discussing LaCroix on social media to the degree they once did, suggested there was “little hope that the brand can recover.”“Many consumers who were drinking LaCroix have since discovered that other brands offer acceptable substitutes and that the brand doesn’t have much that distinguishes it from the competition,” he wrote.Mr. Grandet added that Mr. Caporella, who owns nearly 73 percent of National Beverage, might be willing to sell the company or the LaCroix brand to a buyer like Keurig Dr Pepper.“Ultimately, we don’t see National Beverage being able to revitalize LaCroix if it has been impaired to the degree we suspect it has,” Mr. Grandet wrote.As for the brand’s idiosyncratic news releases, Mr. Liddle said each one was reviewed by a group of employees and lawyers before being issued. Mr. Caporella “is very involved in every communication the company has to the public,” Mr. Liddle said in an interview during which he said that “the fact I’m even speaking to you is unusual.”“Typically, we don’t speak to the press very often,” he said, adding that Mr. Caporella “speaks from his heart” and worried that “his words and his passion might be being a bit misconstrued.”SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft pulled back the curtain on its business for the first time on Friday as it prepared to go public, officially starting the countdown on a horde of technology offerings that are set to bring new wealth to Silicon Valley this year.By publicly unveiling the prospectus for its initial public offering, Lyft signaled its intention to meet investors in what is known as a roadshow in about two weeks, after which it will most likely start trading on the stock market in April. The ride-sharing company leads a stampede of other highly valued private tech companies that plan to go public this year, including its archrival, Uber, as well as Slack, Pinterest and Postmates.But Lyft’s filing also raised questions about the financial health of the tech companies that are planning I.P.O.s. Its filing revealed that while it was growing quickly, its losses were widening. Last year, the company’s revenue totaled $2.2 billion, while it lost $911.3 million.“We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future,” Lyft said in the filing, adding that it expects to spend more as it expands into new offerings and locations.The prospectus is the first time that Lyft has made extensive details of its finances publicly available. Its public offering is being led by JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Jefferies. Lyft did not disclose the market valuation it is seeking from public investors; it was last valued at $15.1 billion by private investors during a financing round in June.[Lyft and Uber said to offer drivers a chance to participate in I.P.O.s.]Lyft filed confidentially to go public in December, the same day Uber did. Both companies are dueling to hold their offerings ahead of the other, in an attempt to be the first publicly traded ride-hailing company. But the onus has mostly been on Lyft to get out first because Uber — estimated to go public at a valuation of as much as $120 billion — would potentially steamroll its much smaller rival.Both companies are set to face questions about when and how they will become profitable. The ride-hailing business is inherently expensive because companies typically pay incentives to recruit drivers and offer discounts to riders. In addition, the companies are spending heavily to grow in areas such as autonomous driving and bike sharing.In 2018, Lyft’s revenue more than doubled to $2.2 billion from $1.1 billion in 2017, according to its filing. But losses mounted, rising to $911.3 million last year from $688.3 million in 2017, though they declined as a percentage of revenue. Total costs and expenses were $3.1 billion in 2018, up 77 percent from $1.8 billion in 2017.Uber, which has disclosed its finances for several years even though it is not public, said in February that it lost $842 million in the final quarter of 2018 on revenue of $3 billion. The firm has been trying to turn its image around after a series of scandals involving its workplace culture and onetime hardball business tactics.Lyft also said 18.6 million people took at least one ride in the last quarter of 2018, up from 6.6 million in late 2016. And based on estimates by the Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which is an investor in Lyft, the company said it had a 39 percent share of the ride-sharing market in the United States, up from 22 percent in 2016.“Two years ago, I definitely viewed Lyft as a second-tier player,” said Jay Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida and an I.P.O. expert. “But Uber’s problems with bad publicity, a lot of self-inflicted stuff, really benefited Lyft.”Matt Kennedy, a senior I.P.O. market strategist at Renaissance Capital, which provides institutional research on public offerings, said that it was possible Uber would bite back and that Lyft’s growth would decline.“The number of I.P.O.s that we’ve seen with $2 billion in revenue and growing at 100 percent are few and far between,” he said.Founded by Logan Green and John Zimmer in 2007, Lyft was initially called Zimride and focused on pooling riders for long-distance trips. By 2012, the pair had renamed their company Lyft and shifted the business to providing brief local trips, mimicking taxi rides.The company presented itself as a genial alternative to Uber. In its early days, Lyft encouraged drivers to strap fuzzy pink mustaches to their front bumpers and to greet riders — who often sat in the front seat — with fist bumps. Although Lyft has since lost the furry fender ornaments, it has maintained its softer image.On Friday in its prospectus, Lyft continued to emphasize that image as giving it an edge. In a founders’ letter, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer wrote that their focus on doing the right thing provided them with a “lasting competitive advantage.”Unlike Uber, which has operations across the globe, Lyft operates in the United States and Canada. It has matched Uber’s efforts to develop self-driving cars and has also expanded into short-term bike and scooter rentals.The company also disclosed that it planned to have two classes of stock: Class A shares, which carry one vote each, and Class B shares, which carry 20 votes apiece. Lyft plans to sell only Class A shares in its public offering.Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who could become billionaires from the offering, each own millions of shares of Class B stock, giving them significant control over the company. In having separate classes of shares — and letting its founders have more power than other shareholders — Lyft is following a well-worn tech company tradition, one adopted by Facebook, Snap and others.“Lyft has the opportunity to deliver one of the most significant shifts to society since the advent of the car,” Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer said in their founders’ letter. “We do not take that lightly, and we intend to lead this shift with integrity, humanity and strong execution.”Among Lyft’s biggest investors are Rakuten; General Motors; Fidelity, the investment management giant; Andreessen Horowitz, the venture capital firm; and Alphabet, the parent of Google, according to the filing.One group that helped build Lyft — its drivers, who are independent contractors — will not share much in the public offering spoils since they do not own stock in the company. Lyft is now working on a cash program to give some drivers money to buy its stock at the time of the I.P.O. The company intends to give $1,000 each to drivers who have completed 10,000 rides for the service; those who have done 20,000 rides will receive $10,000.BEIJING — A pending trade agreement between the United States and China could put few restrictions on Beijing’s control over the strength of its currency, potentially inflaming trade hawks in Congress and within the Trump administration itself.China’s control over the value of its currency has long been a major point of conflict between Beijing and the West, though the issue has faded in prominence in recent years. Lawmakers and officials in other countries have contended that Beijing has unfairly weakened China’s currency, the renminbi, compared with the American dollar and other currencies, giving Chinese companies and factories an advantage when selling goods abroad.China has long denied the accusation.Yi Gang, the governor of China’s central bank, said at a news conference on Sunday morning in Beijing that during high-level trade talks last month in Washington, “the two sides reached consensus on many key and important issues” about currency markets.The consensus included an understanding that both countries would avoid devaluing their currencies to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports, Mr. Yi said. Both countries would also continue to comply with previous currency agreements among the Group of 20 economies, he said. Both countries would also maintain close communication about currency markets and would disclose detailed information in accordance with International Monetary Fund standards, he added.American officials have taken varying stances on the currency provisions. President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have expressed satisfaction with them. But Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, cautioned Congress in testimony two weeks ago that nothing was fully resolved in the trade negotiations until everything had been settled.Though the issue has ebbed as China’s currency has strengthened in recent years, the trade war has given it new relevance. The renminbi fell 10 percent against the American dollar between February and October last year, to the intense annoyance of trade hawks in the Trump administration.In effect, that partly offset the 25 percent tariffs the Trump administration imposed over the summer on $50 billion a year in Chinese goods. It fully offset, at least temporarily, the 10 percent tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last fall on an additional $200 billion a year in Chinese goods.But the renminbi’s fall corresponded to a credit crunch in China and the precipitous slowing of the Chinese economy. Chinese officials contend that the renminbi’s fall reflected the strength of the dollar, not currency manipulation on their part. Miao Yanliang, the chief economist at the Chinese central bank, the People’s Bank of China, noted in a recent statement that the euro fell against the dollar at about the same pace as the renminbi from February to October last year, while the British pound fell even faster.Since the end of October, the renminbi has recovered nearly half its losses during last year’s slide. Foreign investors have poured money into China’s stock market and bond market. They hope to profit from China’s recent program of extra government spending and tax cuts, now being enacted to offset the economic slowdown.The currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued when the group’s finance ministers gathered in Shanghai in February 2016.In the Shanghai currency accord, all the group’s finance ministers agreed that they would not deliberately devalue their currencies with the purpose of achieving a competitive advantage for their exports. When a country’s currency falls in value, that makes the country’s exports less expensive and more competitive in foreign countries.But the Shanghai currency accord, like the currency provisions in the Sino-American trade agreement now being negotiated, still allowed currencies to move up and down for lots of other reasons. These reasons include differences in interest rates and varying investment flows, as well as trade surpluses and deficits.China has long contended that these variables determine what happens to the value of its currency, and that it does not deliberately undervalue its currency to help exporters.The Shanghai currency accord did not require China to peg its currency at a specific value with respect to the dollar. Nor did it require China to maintain stability in the value of its currency with respect to a weighted average of the currencies of China’s trading partners.Beijing argues that it is fairer to measure the renminbi’s value against a so-called basket of currencies of its trading partners, and not just against the dollar.The Shanghai currency accord also required G-20 finance ministers to notify each other of major changes in currency policy, and to disclose data in compliance with I.M.F. standards.In August 2015, China unexpectedly devalued its currency with no warning and very little explanation. It then quietly let the currency slide further from December 2015 through early January 2016.Japan had pushed hard for the Shanghai accord because of Japanese exporters’ alarm over the Chinese devaluation.That devaluation helped China’s exporters a little, but it came at a very high cost to Beijing. Once the renminbi started sliding, it proved very hard to stop. The central bank ended up spending $1 trillion of its $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves to stabilize the currency.Mr. Yi said on Sunday that the central bank now had a target of maintaining foreign exchange reserves of at least $3 trillion. The reserves have fluctuated at about that level for the past three years and totaled $3.09 trillion in February.That leaves very little room for the Chinese central bank to intervene again in currency markets without falling below the threshold set by Mr. Yi.The accusation by American officials that China manipulates its currency is based on a period from early 2001 to the summer of 2014 when the Chinese central bank did sell renminbi and buy dollars on a massive scale to keep the renminbi weak and help exporters.China’s foreign reserves ballooned 24 fold in that period, rising to $4 trillion from $166 billion and dwarfing every other country’s reserves.But since then, Chinese officials have struggled to prevent the renminbi from falling. As the Chinese economy has slowed, many Chinese companies and families have looked for ways to send money out of the country, potentially destabilizing not just the renminbi, but also the Chinese financial system.Beijing has responded since 2016 with increasingly draconian restrictions on capital movements. Using the formidable investigative and surveillance capabilities of the Chinese police, the government has jailed people involved in surreptitious movements of cash abroad.The crackdown has almost completely halted what had been a flood of Chinese money into American real estate and even European soccer clubs in 2015 and early 2016. China now approves few overseas acquisitions by its companies except in areas where it could acquire a geopolitical or military advantage, such as aircraft production, heavy manufacturing, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence.Mr. Yi spoke on Sunday at the annual news conference of the central bank’s leadership, held in conjunction with the 11-day session of the National People’s Congress.Private equity offers the promise of exclusive deals, outsize returns and enviable cocktail parties.But as seductive as these investments are, they can trap investors with onerous restrictions like high capital requirements and longtime commitments.Simply put, private equity is an investment in an asset that is not traded on a public stock market. It’s a catchall term that also includes debt, real estate and various esoteric forms of financing — all of which have different expectations and risks.The high returns offered by these private equity funds, and the minimal regulatory oversight, draw investors with deep pockets, like pension funds and wealthy individuals, who can meet the minimum investment requirement. The downsides are that the fees are high and the money is typically locked in for at least four to seven years.That has not stopped the industry from growing. Private market fund-raising rose nearly 4 percent globally in 2017 to $748 billion, according to a review by McKinsey & Company. That year, the private equity firm Apollo Global Management raised a record $24.6 billion for its ninth fund.But investors must understand the risks. Private equity investments are less liquid than public market securities, for starters, which makes them harder to cash out in a market downturn. And investors may be required to put in money later, an agreement known as a capital call.“You always have to think about the margin for safety,” regardless of the type of investment, said Tony Roth, chief investment officer at Wilmington Trust. “What happens if it doesn’t turn out the way you’re thinking?”This is the fourth in a five-part series looking at highly desirable assets that can deliver great returns but can also become burdens when owners need to offload them quickly. Previous columns have looked at art, cars and collectibles.Private equity is different from the other types in this series because it is a financial investment, not a tangible asset. You can’t hang it on your wall, park it in your garage or serve it with dinner. But it has a cachet from the past successes of other investors, and the high barrier to entry creates an air of intrigue.The first step to making a private investment is understanding the pitch. After all, there are some 7,000 private investment managers across the globe.Determining the skill of the manager is important, so do your homework. Andrea Auerbach, global head of private investments at Cambridge Associates, a consultant and an adviser, said picking an average manager could affect your bottom line.The difference in returns between public equity managers who are in the middle of the pack and top performers was less than three percentage points, she said. But when it came to private equity, the difference in returns between mediocre and top managers was 21 points.A second step is spreading money across funds raised in different years, not just with different strategies. For instance, funds raised in the years before the recession made most of their investments when the market was at a peak, so they consequently performed worse than those that raised money in the years right after the downturn, when asset values were lower.A bigger problem for investors in 2008, though, was that private equity firms demanded money from investors in a capital call. The timing was bad because some investors had put their money in the stock market and had to sell their shares at steep discounts to avoid defaulting.“Most investors oversimplified it, which increased their risk,” said Adam I. Taback, deputy chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. “You have to figure in the growth of every other asset. What’s happened to the other 90 percent of your portfolio while you’re doing all this private equity planning?”Patience is a necessity in private investments.The marketing material for these funds suggest the investment will last about seven years, but in reality, with clauses in the documents about mandatory extensions, some of these funds can drag on for twice as long.“Let’s say you make a commitment to a manager and they turn out to be not who you think they are,” Ms. Auerbach said. “You can try to sell your slightly used private equity stake on the secondary market, or you can do your homework and make sure you can stay with the manager for 12 to 15 years.”“Everything,” she added, “takes longer than people think.”In the current economic cycle, advisers are urging their clients to do more due diligence and be cautious. “With at least a five- to seven-year outlook, it’s almost certain there is going to be a recession during that time frame,” Mr. Roth said.Investors should factor in periods of volatility. “When you know you’re going to have a recession, you need a much larger margin of safety than earlier in the cycle,” he said.To this end, Mr. Roth said, Wilmington Trust has formed partnerships with various private equity firms on behalf of its clients to make niche investments. One involved investing in distressed loans in Europe.In another recent deal, Wilmington Trust joined forces with a private equity firm that invested only in digital and personal security companies. Its $700 million fund, entering its second year, has already returned capital from successful deals.Uneven allocation can be a problem. As a private investment matures, managers are both asking for capital and returning money from earlier investments.“If you have $10 and want to go into small-cap equity, you write your check and you have your $10 of exposure,” said Katherine Rosa, global head of alternative investments at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. “With private equity, you commit capital and that’s drawn down over three-, four-, five-year periods and the distributions come back to you when the manager decides to sell that position.“So at any time,” she added, “the most you’ll be out of pocket is between $6.50 and $7.50 out of that $10.”That dynamic has tripped up some investors who pledged money to private equity funds that was allocated to another investment, hoping their returns would cover the call for more capital.For investors new to private equity, buying a stakes on the secondary market may be a good entry point, Ms. Auerbach said, because the buyer will have a sense of the fund’s performance and get returns more quickly.But the question remains: How much do you put into private equity to reap the benefits but avoid the downside? Unfortunately, there is no hard rule like the 60/40 split between stocks and bonds that serves as a baseline for investing in the public markets.Ms. Auerbach wrote a paper analyzing the private investment strategies of top-performing institutional investors and what individuals could learn from them. She found that most big institutions had at least 15 percent of their portfolio in private investments, with some going more than 40 percent.She said large, multigenerational families might be able to do the same, given their wealth and ability to remain comfortable with the illiquidity.Of course, that percentage depends not just on the asset base but also on a family’s spending. Ms. Rosa said clients needed to think about whether they could get returns on their other investments that were high enough to cover their lifestyle while they waited for their private equity investments to mature.That makes sense, but all those numbers need to be forecast out years, and by that time, the economy may have stalled.BEIJING — A senior Chinese trade official called on Saturday for a compromise between the United States and China that could make a trade deal easier to reach this spring. But it could also lead to a more fragile agreement, which could fall apart quickly should trade frictions rise again.Over the past year, the most contentious issue in the countries’ trade talks has been the Trump administration’s demand for what it calls an enforcement provision, which would allow the United States to monitor China’s behavior and put penalties in place if the Chinese violated the deal.The Trump administration has pressed China to accept an agreement allowing the United States to unilaterally reimpose tariffs if it concludes that China has not gone through with structural changes to its economy. In the past month, the administration has also pushed for a broader enforcement mechanism, which would include the right to reimpose tariffs for any category of goods in which imports from China surge.In exchange, the Trump administration would roll back at least some of the tariffs it placed on $250 billion of imports from China that it imposed last year, penalties that have strained ties between the governments, rocked financial markets and thrown the future of companies that operate in both countries in doubt.Chinese officials have strongly resisted the idea of an enforcement provision. They worry that the Trump administration, or future ones, could invoke it at any time to restart trade frictions.But Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, raised a possible compromise at a news conference in Beijing on Saturday morning. He said China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions against the other side after an agreement was struck.“Any implementation mechanism must go in both directions, fair and equal,” Mr. Wang said, using China’s preferred term for an enforcement mechanism. He spoke at an annual news conference given by the Chinese Commerce Ministry’s top officials, in conjunction with the 11-day session of the country’s rubber-stamp legislature, the National People’s Congress.Mr. Wang did not address another aspect of the enforcement question that has deeply divided the United States and China. While the Trump administration wants the right to reimpose tariffs unilaterally, China’s Commerce Ministry has favored creating a lengthy process of bilateral consultations if either side has a grievance.In testimony before Congress on Feb. 27, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, outlined a possible method for enforcing the deal under which the two sides would hold a regular series of meetings at multiple levels of government, and, if China violated the agreement, American tariffs would spring back into force.The details of that proposal aren’t fully clear. But some American businesses are wary of a deal that would only allow them to air complaints through the government, as Mr. Lighthizer’s description seemed to suggest. They said such an arrangement could be time-consuming and ultimately lack the capacity to address many of the problems faced by the thousands of American companies operating in China.Other trade deals that the United States has signed in the past have included different methods that companies could use to resolve problems, like a special court for investors. But the Trump administration has been suspicious of those kinds of arrangements, viewing them as a potential infringement on American sovereignty.American businesses also contend that having the main penalty for violating the agreement be the reimposition of tariffs risks creating lasting uncertainty. The companies are now weighing whether to continue to invest in China or whether the prospect of additional levies would make it less risky to move operations abroad.As long as the threat of tariffs looms, the United States and China could resolve their differences in the coming months, only to find themselves back in a similar stalemate next year.“We could definitely see ourselves in yet another period of uncertainty,” said Erin Ennis, senior vice president of the U.S.-China Business Council.Mr. Wang did not answer a question about whether Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping might meet in Florida this month to seal a trade deal. Tentative plans for such a summit meeting have been put in doubt by continued disagreement over an enforcement mechanism, and over what limits China might accept on its ability to subsidize high-tech manufacturing.If the two sides agree on an enforcement provision that covers import surges, it might be more useful to the United States.Research by Brad Setser, who was a Treasury economist in the Obama administration and is now at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, has found broad stagnation in American exports of manufactured goods over the past few years, a possible sign of eroding American competitiveness. By contrast, Chinese exports to countries all over the world have been surging.China wants the United States to remove all of the extra tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last year. That would leave China with its average tariffs of 7.5 percent on imports from all over the world, compared to 5 percent for the European Union and 3 percent for the United States.China contends that it is still a developing country and therefore should not have to operate under the same trade rules as the West. Commerce Minister Zhong Shan said at the news conference on Saturday that any reform of the World Trade Organization, which the Trump administration has sought to overhaul, should respect the different needs of developing countries.Mr. Trump has promised an ambitious agreement that would address ever-rising American trade deficits with China at a time when Beijing poses a growing geopolitical challenge to the United States. China has built the world’s largest navy and an archipelago of air bases on artificial islands in the South China Sea, and it has tried to promote its combination of single-party authoritarianism and state-led economic growth as a global alternative to democracy and free markets.But the overall United States trade deficit, and specifically its deficit with China, further increased last year. Congressional Democrats have become increasingly critical of Mr. Trump on trade in recent days, accusing him of having become too willing to accept a weak deal just to have an agreementMr. Trump and his advisers continued to present a tough front on Friday, even as the president predicted a jump in the stock market if a trade deal were to be reached. “If this isn’t a great deal, we won’t make a deal,” he added.Mr. Wang said there had been progress during trade talks last month in Washington — and at least one moment of harmony. Vice Premier Liu He of China ordered a hamburger, while Mr. Lighthizer had a Chinese dish, chicken with eggplant sauce. Mr. Wang said the two men turned down offers of tea and coffee.“They were both drinking water, they wanted to find common ground,” he said.This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Almost half of Democratic voters identify as either political moderates or conservatives. And more than half of Democratic voters say they would like to see the party move toward the center rather than the left.If you’ve been watching the early maneuverings in the 2020 Democratic primary, these facts may surprise you. So far, the candidates have mostly been trying to appeal to the more left-leaning parts of the Democratic coalition. I understand why. There’s a lot of energy on the political left these days, and most of it is quite healthy.But I think the Democrats shouldn’t lose sight of the large fraction of voters — a clear majority nationwide — who don’t see themselves as liberals. It’s possible to appeal to these moderate voters while still offering a progressive agenda. There is no need to go all Howard Schultz.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]My column today makes the case that Democrats can be strongly progressive and still pitch themselves to swing voters. I hope — and expect — that the primary campaign is about to enter a phase in which this balance gets some more attention.Inflating realityThis weekend, The Wall Street Journal ran a big package of articles celebrating the state of the American labor market, under the headline “The Great American Jobs Machine.” The subhead proclaimed: “This is the hottest labor market in 50 years.”My immediate reaction was skepticism. The very same Wall Street Journal ran an article a week earlier (which I cited in this newsletter) explaining that workers’ share of the economic pie was continuing to shrink and that middle-class incomes were stagnant. So I was curious to see how the new, cheerier story would try to prove its case.The answer was pretty incredible. Two charts showed several steeply rising lines, each meant to depict median weekly earnings since 2007 for a specific demographic group. The lines suggested that weekly earnings had surged by between 15 percent and 35 percent over this period. Sounds great, right?It would be, if it reflected reality. But the charts committed perhaps the most basic sin of economics journalism: They didn’t adjust for inflation. When you ignore inflation, most dollar values look as if they’re steeply rising. But that’s meaningless. In truth, weekly earnings for most groups have risen by only single-digit percentage points since 2007. For some demographic groups — like college dropouts — inflation-adjusted pay has fallen. Bottom line: The current job market remains decidedly cooler than the job market of the late 1990s or late 1960s.I think it’s worth highlighting the Journal package both because of its prominence and because journalism that exaggerates the health of today’s economy is all too common. Why? In part, it’s that journalists enjoy publishing counterintuitive stories. (I’ll confess to having that bias too.) Trumpeting a boom feels counterintuitive these days, because most Americans don’t feel like they’re living through a boom.Sometimes, though, counterintuitive is just another word for wrong.Related: Another part of the explanation is that some of the traditional economic indicators, like G.D.P., unemployment and the stock market, look very good. Unfortunately, they no longer accurately describe the experiences of many households. Better measures are income and net worth — including inflation, of course.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.SAN FRANCISCO — Big wealth doesn’t come in monthly paychecks. It comes when a start-up goes public, transforming hypothetical money into extremely real money. This year — with Uber, Lyft, Slack, Postmates, Pinterest and Airbnb all hoping to enter the public markets — there’s going to be a lot of it in the Bay Area.Estimates of Uber’s value on the market have been as high as $120 billion. Airbnb was most recently valued at $31 billion, with Lyft and Pinterest around $15 billion and $12 billion. It’s anyone’s guess what prices these companies actually will command once they go public, but even conservative estimates predict hundreds of billions of dollars will flood into town in the next year, creating thousands of new millionaires. It’s hard to imagine more money in San Francisco, but the city’s residents now need to start trying.Welcomed finally into the elite caste who can afford to live comfortably in the Bay Area, the fleet of new millionaires are already itching to claim what has been promised all these years.They want cars. They want to open new restaurants. They want to throw bigger parties. And they want houses.One recent night, in a packed room with a view of the Bay Bridge and an open bar, real estate investors gathered. Standing at the front presenting was Deniz Kahramaner, a real estate agent specializing in data analytics at Compass.“Are we going to see a one-bedroom condo that’s worth less than $1 million in five years?” he asked the crowd. “Are we going to see single family homes selling for one to three million?”No, he said, not anymore. The energy rose as he revealed more data about new millionaires and about just how few new units have been built for them. San Francisco single-family home sale prices could climb to an average of $5 million, he said, to gasps.[Sign up for California Today, our newsletter for Californians and people who care about California.]“All cash. These are all cash buyers,” he said. “It’s just going to be astounding.”Now, seemingly the whole city — and not just the financial planners and the real estate agents and the protesters who block tech buses — is scrambling to prepare.Housing MadnessAs the idea of the coming I.P.O.-palooza took on currency, sellers started pulling their houses off the market. The broader California housing market has softened, and home sales are down, but here’s one fix for that. “Even if just half the I.P.O.s happen, there’s going to be ten thousand millionaires overnight,” said Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaires everywhere left and right.’”One of those is his client Rick Rider, a 61-year-old C.E.O. who decided not to publicly list his Bay Area house until some of the I.P.O.s have happened.“Our particular house is not a family home. It’s a Double Income No Kids sort of home,” Mr. Rider said. “So it would potentially play well for a lot of the people that would be benefiting from the I.P.O.s.”The spending wars will likely stay close to work. “The millennial tech workers are really looking for convenience,” said Christine Kim, the president of Climb Real Estate. “They seem to not want to own cars, and food deliveries are really easy now, and they want to be close to entertainment, so they’ll stay in the city.”When Google in Mountain View and Facebook in Menlo Park went public, their workers were spread across the Bay Area, and so the impact on housing was diffuse. Now, many of the biggest start-ups are based in San Francisco, in part thanks to the city’s tax breaks. Brokers say San Francisco is where the workers want to stay.In 2018 there were 5,644 properties sold in San Francisco and only 2,208 of those were single family homes. Software employees represent more than 50 percent of those buying, according to Compass. One real estate firm estimates an average one-bedroom in the city now rents for $3,690 per month. (Another firm puts that average at $3,551.)“Now you’ve got all these I.P.O.s at the same time, and we’ll potentially have thousands of young people, all now with money, looking to buy homes,” said Shane Ray, a real estate agent. “You’ll be able to feel it.”Those in the market for a house are trying to buy them fast while the inventory shrinks but before the wave hits.“I had this sense of existential dread that if we didn’t buy before all the I.P.O.s, we would forever be priced out,” said Tom McLeod, the founder of storage start-up Omni, who has been renting for nearly a decade. “We ended up pulling the trigger.”Don’t Buy BoatsCompanies instill in their employees a belief that stock only goes up. At this point, a decade since their founding, start-ups like Uber and Airbnb have been asking their employees to hold that faith for a long time. Now, wealth managers are hoping to rattle the religious.Ryan S. Cole, a private wealth adviser at Citrine Capital, said he has started getting an influx of new clients who are preparing for wealth. He is worried. This generation of the start-up wealthy seem especially bullish on their company’s success.“We’ve been trying to get them to exercise a little more caution, just because they’re so excited,” Mr. Cole said. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn.”He cautions that no one can be sure how well a stock will do. A company like Uber is still dramatically unprofitable, he tries to remind his clients. So many I.P.O.s turn out to be busts. Groupon opened around $26 a share and now trades around $3; Snap opened around $27 and now trades at $9.“A lot of them are young — they’ve just seen their valuations going up forever and they don’t really understand that tech stocks are volatile,” Mr. Cole said. “And they have their managers painting especially rosy pictures of where the company is headed to get them to work harder.”Mostly, he just urges his clients not to spend too much yet.“They shouldn’t be buying boats,” Mr. Cole said. “We see a little bit of that.” Electric bikes, on the other hand, are a favorite mode of transportation for the San Francisco tech worker. Owners of the electric bike shop New Wheel say they are preparing for the I.P.O.s by ordering 30 percent more of the Stromer ST3 — the most popular configuration retails for around $7,500 — and 200 percent more of the Riese & Muller front-loader bikes, which sell for around $9,500. Michael Biggica, the founder of Pixel Financial Planning, said 2019 is the year of “pent-up demand” and that the excitement of a windfall can be intoxicating.“My role is eliminating that emotion,” Mr. Biggica said.Jonathan K. DeYoe, another private wealth adviser in the region, started working with tech clients in 1997 during the first dot-com boom. He said it was pretty exciting back then. Now, as he thinks about thousands of new millionaires coming onto the scene, he is worried about the region’s inequality.“There’s some who’ve talked about pitchforks,” Mr. DeYoe said. “And I don’t think we’ll go there, but there’s a point when that makes sense.”“It’s very visible,” Mr. DeYoe said. “This kind of wealth is very visible.”Party CityIn cities like Oakland and Berkeley and San Francisco, millennials obsess over Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Twitter and attend Democratic Socialists of America meetings. But the socialist passion doesn’t seem to have impacted the city’s zeal for I.P.O. parties, which the party planning community says are going to surpass past booms.Jay Siegan, a former live music club owner who now curates private entertainment and music, is gearing up. He has worked on events for many of the I.P.O. hopefuls, including Uber, Airbnb, Slack, Postmates and Lyft.“We see multiple parties per I.P.O. for the company that is I.P.O.ing, as well as firms that are associated to them,” Mr. Siegan said. Budgets for start-up parties, he said, can easily go above $10 million. “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives. They want ballet performers.”A popular new feature he’s noticing is clients hoping to curate their own theme concerts featuring fleets of bands. Mr. Siegan says he put on one for a 1980s loving tech executive, featuring the B-52s, Devo, The Bangles, Tears for Fears and Flock of Seagulls.In a warehouse in Concord, Calif., the I.P.O. ice sculptor is getting ready to staff up for what he says will be a long year.“It’s going to be a lot of 14-hour days,” said Robert Chislett, founder of Chisel-it, who has around 15 ice sculptors currently employed.Together, they have chiseled a full-size ice car for a tech executive’s party in Atherton and a 10-foot ice Taj Mahal for another’s swimming pool in San Jose. But, he says, I.P.O.ing executives usually want predictable things. An ice chair with the logo on the back, for photos. A lot of logos carved into ice rockets, to indicate that the company’s stock will be like a rocket. And ice cubes, for drinks, with the company logo on each one.To the Barricades and Back AgainAnd of course, the tech backlash, mostly quiet as stocks have vested, is preparing for its own revival.At Radio Habana Social Club in the Mission district, housing rights activists gathered one recent evening for a drink. By now, there is a well-known choreography: the cash comes flooding in to a few and the stock-less masses begin to gather. They will protest evictions, fight developers, organize against tax breaks and unfurl banners in front of tech buses.“It’s going to mean mass displacement,” said Sarah “Fred” Sherburn-Zimmer, the executive director of the Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco, of the coming wealth influx.She paused for a moment. “It feels like the same game,” she said. Activists stood elbow-to-elbow around a table of hummus and pepper jack cheese. “We’ve lived through boom times before,” said Maria Zamudio, the group’s associate director. “We’ve learned our lessons. We know what a massive influx of money looks like. Concessions we made in the past, we will not make this year.”If a group of time-traveling economists were to visit from the year 2000 and wanted to know how the economy had changed since their time, what would you tell them?You might mention that economic growth has been slower than it used to be across much of the advanced world, and global inflation and interest rates have been lower. An aging population is changing the demographics of the work force. Productivity growth has been weak. Inequality has risen. And the corporate world is more and more dominated by a handful of “superstar” firms.The time-traveling economists would find that list rather depressing, but also would tend to view each problem on the list as discrete, with its own cause and potential solutions. “What terrible economic luck,” they might say, “that all those things happened at the same time.”But what if those megatrends are all the same problem?Maybe, for example, inequality is contributing to weak growth and low rates because the rich tend to save money rather than spend it. Maybe productivity has been weak not by coincidence, but because weak growth has meant companies haven’t been forced to innovate to meet demand. Perhaps industry concentration has left companies with more power to set wages, resulting in more inequality and lower inflation.Those theories may not be definitively proven, but there is growing evidence supporting each. Much of the most interesting economic research these days is trying to understand and prove potential connections between these dysfunctions.In recent weeks, for example, one groundbreaking paper proposes that low interest rates are fueling a rising concentration of major industries and low productivity growth. Another offers evidence that aging demographics are an important factor in weak productivity.Even if you don’t fully buy every one of these interrelationships, taken together, this work suggests we’ve been thinking about the world’s economic woes all wrong. It’s not a series of single strands, but a spider web of them.Imagine a person with a few separate problems — some credit card debt, say, and an unhappy marriage. That person might be able to address each problem on its own, by paying down debt and going to counseling.But things are thornier when a person has a long list of problems that are interrelated. Think of someone with mental health problems, a drug addiction, and an inability to maintain family relationships or hold a job. For that person you can’t just fix one thing. It’s a whole basket of problems.The implication of this new body of research is that the global economy, like that troubled person, needs a lot of different types of help all at the same time.But for now, the challenge is just to understand it.Why low interest rates can favor market leadersAtif Mian, an economist at Princeton, was recently having dinner with a colleague whose parents owned a small hotel in Spain. The parents had complained vociferously, Mr. Mian recalled the friend saying, about the European Central Bank’s low interest rate policies.That didn’t make sense, Mr. Mian thought. After all, low interest rates should make it easier for small business owners to invest and expand; that’s one of the reasons central banks use them to combat economic weakness.The owners of the small hotel didn’t see it that way. They thought that big hotel chains were the real beneficiaries of low interest rate policies, not a mom-and-pop operation.Mr. Mian, along with his Princeton colleague Ernest Liu and research partner, Amir Sufi at the University of Chicago, tried to figure out if the relationship between low interest rates and business investment might be murkier than textbooks suggested.Imagine a town in which two hotels are competing for business, one part of a giant chain and one that is independent. The chain hotel might have some better technology and marketing to give it a steady advantage, and is therefore able to charge a little more for its rooms and be a little more profitable. But it is basically a level playing field.When interest rates fall to very low levels, though, the payoff for being the industry leader rises, under the logic that a business generating a given flow of cash is more valuable when rates are low than when they are high. (This is why low interest rates typically cause the stock market to rise.)A market leader has more to gain from investing and becoming bigger, and it becomes less likely that the laggards will ever catch up.“At low interest rates, the valuation of market leaders rises relative to the rest,” Mr. Mian said. “Amazon becomes a lot more valuable as interest rates fall relative to a smaller player in the same industry, and that gives a huge advantage to Amazon.”In turn, the researchers argue, that can cause smaller players to underinvest, lowering productivity growth across the economy. And that can create a self-sustaining cycle in which industry leaders invest more and achieve ever-rising dominance of their industry.The researchers tested the theory against historical stock market data since 1962, and found that falling interest rates indeed correlated with market leaders that outperformed the laggards.“There’s a view that we can solve all of our problems by just making interest rates low enough,” Mr. Mian said. “We’re questioning that notion and believe there is something else going on.”How an aging population affects productivityIn another effort to apply a new lens on how major economic forces may interact, economists at Moody’s Analytics have tried to unpack the ties between demographic change and labor productivity.No one disputes that the aging of the current work force is reducing growth rates. With many in the large baby boom generation retiring, fewer people are working and producing, which directly reduces economic output.In terms of company efficiency, though, you could imagine that an aging work force could cut in either direction. Savvy, more experienced workers might be able to generate more output for every hour they work. But they might be less willing to learn the latest technology or adapt their work style to changing environments. Adam Ozimek, Dante DeAntonio and Mark Zandi analyzed data on work force age and productivity at both the state and industry level, with payroll data on millions of workers. They found that the second effect seems to prevail, that an aging work force can explain a slowdown in productivity growth of between 0.3 and 0.7 percentage points per year over the last 15 years.Mr. Ozimek says companies may not want to invest in new training for people in their early 60s who will retire in a few years. “It’s possible that older workers may still be the absolute best workers at their firms, but it could be not worth it to them or the company to retrain and learn new things,” he said.The research implies there could be a downward drag on productivity growth for years to come.These findings are hardly the end of the discussion on these topics. But they do reflect that there can be a lot of nonintuitive connections hiding in plain sight.Everything, it turns out, affects everything.Just three months ago, investors were in a panic over the idea that the Federal Reserve might push borrowing costs too high and tip the United States economy into a recession. Now, Wall Street is toying with the idea that the central bank could actually be cutting interest rates by the end of the year. Those forecasts are evident in the market for interest rate futures, where the odds of another interest rate increase in 2019 have fallen to zero, from about 30 percent in December, while the chance of a decrease in rates has risen to almost one in three. One reason for the changing forecasts? The Fed’s own signal to be more patient as it evaluates whether or not to keep raising interest rates. Since the central bank’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, first spoke about this newfound patience, stocks have soared more than 15 percent. “It’s been a night-and-day difference, the outlook for stocks going from December into the first quarter this year,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York. “And I think you could say that Federal Reserve policy was very important in underpinning the stock market rally.”On Wednesday, the Fed left interest rates unchanged and members of its monetary policy committee issued projections that showed they expected no interest rate increases in 2019. Although stocks ended the day slightly lower, they rose in the afternoon after the central bank announced its decision.The Fed isn’t the only reason that the market is up. Some analysts point toward rising hopes for a United States-China trade deal as helping to lift important technology and industrial shares. But sectors sensitive to interest rates — small companies for which borrowing costs make up a significant expense, and homebuilders and carmakers whose customers depend on financing — have posted some of the bigger gains in this rally.The stock market has risen even as forecasts for economic growth have shown concern about a slowdown. Economists expect that the United States grew at an annualized pace of less than 2 percent in the first quarter, a slowdown from the 3 percent growth posted in 2018. And stock analysts have continued to downgrade their expectations for profits this year. Since the end of 2018, full-year profit estimates for companies in the S&P 500 have declined 3 percent, according to FactSet, a financial data provider.Investors who have so far sat out the 2019 rally, because of concerns about the economy or profits, may be coming around to the idea that it is a mistake to do so when the Fed is so clearly the primary driver of gains. Last week, more than $25 billion surged into funds that buy American stocks, according to data from EPFR Global, a firm that tracks mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. “It could be that the chase is on,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “People could be suddenly saying, ‘I’ve got to get involved.’”SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft officially signaled on Monday that it sought to have the biggest technology initial public offering since 2014, setting the stage for a bonanza of riches for young tech companies this year.The ride-hailing company said in a new regulatory filing that it hoped to be valued at up to $23 billion when it lists on the stock market as soon as next week, the highest number for a tech company since Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, went public at a $169 billion valuation in 2014. Lyft’s target value is significantly greater than its $15.1 billion valuation in its last private funding round, a sign that it expects a warm reception from investors.That provides a benchmark for other tech companies that are preparing to go public this year, including Lyft’s chief rival, Uber, as well as Pinterest, Postmates, Slack and others. All are seeking high valuations, with their offerings likely to bring a wave of wealth to tech investors, founders and early employees that will once again rev up the Silicon Valley start-up ecosystem. Lyft’s I.P.O. is expected to be quickly eclipsed by Uber, which may go public at a valuation of up to $120 billion.“We’re looking at Lyft as a bellwether for the summer I.P.O. market,” said Matthew Kennedy, a senior I.P.O. market strategist at Renaissance Capital. “The others in the pipeline are all watching Lyft and looking to see whether investors are interested in companies that are highly unprofitable but highly valuable.”But in a troubling trend for some investors, Lyft’s new filing also revealed how tech founders are continuing to assert control over their companies in a way that gives other shareholders very little say. Because of a mechanism that gives Lyft’s two founders — Logan Green, the chief executive, and John Zimmer, the president — outsize voting rights, the duo will own less than 5 percent of the company’s outstanding stock once it is public but they will control nearly 49 percent of its voting shares.The filing coincided with the start of Lyft’s so-called road show, a two-week run of meetings during which company executives and advisers will try to persuade prospective investors to grab a piece of what will the first ride-hailing firm to go public.Lyft’s offering will test how investors value the ride-hailing business model. Lyft and Uber have demonstrated rapid growth but neither company is profitable, and each spends heavily on subsidies for riders and drivers in an effort to win market share from each other. Lyft lost $911.3 million last year on revenue of $2.2 billion, the company disclosed in an earlier filing.In its new filing, Lyft proposed a high-end share price of $62 to $68, a range that would generate about $2.1 billion, and perhaps as much as $2.4 billion if demand for shares is great enough for the company to increase the number it makes available.Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer are set to reap hundreds of millions of dollars apiece as a result of the offering, the updated prospectus showed. Mr. Green’s stake would be worth about $569 million at the high end of the expected initial share price; Mr. Zimmer’s would be worth about $393 million.Perhaps more important, the two men would retain control of Lyft, thanks to their ownership of a special class of shares that gives them 20 times the voting power of regular shareholders, despite each of them owning less than 3 percent of the company.The arrangement is common in I.P.O.s by founder-led technology companies. Facebook and Snap, for example, ensured that their creators would keep an iron grip on their businesses. But the practice has been criticized by investor advocates who say that it creates a disadvantage for regular shareholders.“This arrangement imposes a significant gap between those who exercise control over the company, and those who have economic exposure to the consequences of that control,” a coalition of institutional investors wrote in a letter last week to Lyft’s board that asked them to reconsider the arrangement.In a video promoting the company’s roadshow that was also released on Monday, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer discussed their reasons for founding Lyft. The video showed Mr. Green, 35, riding a public bus in San Francisco and recalling a visit to Zimbabwe, where he drew inspiration from car pools he saw there. Mr. Zimmer, 34, reflected on his time in hotel management while wandering through a hotel parking garage.In the video, the pair then meet in the back seat of a car, where they hinted at their advantages: Their company is still led by its founders, they said, and is solely focused on consumer transportation without side bets in food delivery and freight shipments. Their message was a dig at Uber, whose founders are no longer in executive roles at the company and which has expanded into food delivery with Uber Eats and freight shipments with Uber Freight.“Car ownership in the U.S. is failing people,” Mr. Zimmer said in the video, suggesting that the transportation industry will eventually flip from car ownership to ride services like Lyft.The price for Lyft’s shares is expected to be finalized on March 28, according to Ipreo, setting the company up to begin trading on the stock market on March 29.TICA, Mozambique — Hundreds of villagers labored under a blazing sun on Thursday to salvage what they could from cornfields that just days earlier were submerged by storm-driven floodwaters.With the waters from Cyclone Idai starting to recede, it was time to take stock, and in Tica, a central Mozambique village where many of the residents are subsistence farmers, the news was not good. Homes, clothes and crops — all vanished.“Everything we have is gone,” said Armindo Fernando Lazaro, 52, a father of eight who was taking shelter at the Muda Mufo Complete School.For aid agencies, the water’s retreat allowed better access to scores of communities that had been cut off by the cyclone, which hit last Thursday, and by the floods that followed.Agencies were shifting their focus away from search-and-rescue operations to providing food and supplies, said Caroline Haga, a spokeswoman for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies’ relief team in central Mozambique.“Floods are receding quite quickly,” Ms. Haga said. “If things continue like this, we might no longer be in a situation where people are in danger.” She cautioned, however, that the weather could change.The cyclone struck Mozambique before continuing on to Zimbabwe and Malawi, displacing hundreds of thousands of people.At a news conference Thursday, Celso Correia, Mozambique’s land and environment minister, said the country’s death toll had risen to more than 200. In Zimbabwe, 139 were reportedly killed and another 56 in Malawi.But as recovery workers reach new areas, many believe the numbers will grow. “It’s going to rise is the short answer,” said Russell Geekie Jr., a spokesman for the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.With the immediate danger from the storm abated, the concern now is long-term disruption of the food supply and waterborne disease. “It’s inevitable,” Mr. Geekie said.The authorities were also monitoring a dam in Marowanyati, Zimbabwe, that was straining to contain a night of heavy rainfall.An estimated 1.5 million people were in the path of the storm. Many were already the poorest of the poor when the waters began rising. If it seemed impossible to have less, for some, the storm may prove that wrong.Mr. Lazaro, who was sheltering at the school, recalled that early in the morning after the cyclone, a neighbor frantically knocked on his door, warning him of approaching floods. His family ran out of their home, some climbing a mango tree, the rest a cashew tree.“We took only the clothes we’re now wearing,” Mr. Lazaro said.It was not until the following morning that they could descend from their perches, he said.In a section of Tica called Kennedy, a path led from the main dirt road into the village, a serpentine route that, on Thursday, was still knee-deep in water for long stretches.Under the beating sun, the air was thick with the smell of rotting trees and plants in the water. Tsetse flies tore into bare human flesh, and downed mango and palm trees obstructed the narrow path.Many roofs, usually corrugated zinc, had been blown entirely off homes. Others stood vertical, as if the cyclone had peeled open a can.Many villagers were working in machambas — farm fields handed down from the nation’s former colonial power, Portugal.Standing knee-deep in water, Rebecca Janeiro, 32, and her son, Jaime Luis, 16, worked land dotted with yellowing cornstalks bent from the force of the surging water.“It’s all rotten,” she said, holding a large pan filled with discolored corn that she hoped to mill after it dried.Working in the machamba is the only way Ms. Janeiro knew how to make a living.It has put food on the table for her seven children, and if there is any surplus, she sells it at the market, using the money to pay her children’s school fees.But now, most of the crops she planted in December — four months’ work — had vanished.“I’m worried for the rest of the year,” she said. “I’m not sure how I’ll feed my children.”For people with few possessions and little ability to replace them, the loss of a cooking pot, a chair or even a pair of pants was a big blow.So Jose Joao, 19, wading through a particularly deep stretch of the flooded patch, held tight to a small solar panel hooked to a cellphone battery. In Kennedy, which has never had electricity or running water, a lucky few have solar panels to recharge lights, cellphones or radios.The morning after the cyclone, his father told him floods were coming, but Mr. Joao did not take the warning seriously.Then he saw the water surging.Mr. Joao and two friends climbed a mango tree — with, of course, his solar panel. “I thought I’d die if I fell from the tree,” he said.They were rescued the next day by a villager with a canoe.A couple of miles down the inundated path, two women dried corn on the ground next to a one-room church, whose roof had caved in at a sharp angle, and talked about the floodwaters.“This high,” said one of the women, Maria Juliai, 27, holding her hand against the wall of the broken church. It was about six feet above the ground.They, too, had sought refuge in a mango tree.“We were up the tree Saturday and Sunday,” Ms. Juliai said. “And then four men from the village came to rescue us.”One of those men, Jambo Domindos, 59, said that he and his friends, all strong swimmers, saved more than a dozen people, including 3-month-old twin girls, from trees.“When we found them, most of them were crying,” he said.At the Muda Mufo school, mothers and young children were taking shelter in classrooms or playing in the yard’s soft mud. Most of the men were back home, busy farming. Their families would join them when the water receded more.Mr. Lazaro said he was eager to leave the shelter.“I’ll see what the weather is like,” he said, “and then I’ll do machamba again.”LONDON — The financial technology provider Fidelity National Information Services agreed on Monday to buy Worldpay for about $34 billion, in a bid to become a powerhouse in the global payments sector.The deal is among the biggest in the industry, as companies race to capture a share of the booming payments market. Companies like Worldpay are often invisible to consumers, but they process the escalating number of e-commerce transactions and purchases made through contactless payment systems like Apple Pay.That growth has already driven some big deals. In January, Fiserv agreed to buy another big processor, First Data, for about $22 billion.Acquiring Worldpay, a former unit of the Royal Bank of Scotland that itself has grown through acquisitions, would give Fidelity National Information Services — known as FIS — a formidable presence in the e-commerce market. Worldpay says that it processes about 40 billion transactions a year.FIS itself provides software for processing credit-card transactions and other services for banks, and it has also grown through acquisitions, including a $5 billion deal to buy SunGuard in 2015.“Scale matters in our rapidly changing industry,” Gary Norcross, FIS’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement on Monday.The merger still requires approval of shareholders and may come under regulatory review.Under the terms of the deal, FIS will pay 0.9287 of a share and $11 in cash for every share of Worldpay. As of Friday’s closing prices, that is about $112.12, or 14 percent higher than where Worldpay’s stock closed.Including the assumption of Worldpay’s debt, the deal’s overall value is about $43 billion.The combined company will keep FIS’s name and headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla., the companies said. Mr. Norcross will remain chairman and chief executive, and FIS will hold seven of 12 board seats.SAN FRANCISCO — Uber is in talks to sell a stake in its self-driving technologies unit to SoftBank and other investors for as much as $1 billion, as the ride-hailing company prepares to go public, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.The talks are still underway and may not result in an investment, said the people, who asked for anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. Apart from SoftBank, the investor consortium includes an automaker, they added.Under the terms of the proposed deal, investors would purchase from a pool of Uber stock specifically earmarked for the self-driving technologies unit. Uber would maintain majority control of the self-driving arm and would use the investment to fund its research and development. The deal would value the self-driving business at $5 billion to $10 billion, the people said.Uber filed confidentially to go public in December in what would be one of the largest tech initial public offerings of recent years. The company, based in San Francisco, could hit a valuation of $120 billion when it reaches the stock market.But Uber is under scrutiny for its losses — its net loss was $842 million in the fourth quarter — and self-driving technologies are expensive. A $1 billion infusion could ease worries about how costly it is to develop autonomous cars.The proposed investment was earlier reported by The Wall Street Journal.Uber has for years invested heavily in self-driving cars, which it has said will eventually become a primary mode of transportation, replacing its human drivers. But its autonomous unit, formed in 2014, loses between $100 million and $200 million each quarter. Its fleet of vehicles was also grounded for nine months last year after one of the autonomous cars struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona. In the past, Uber has considered spinning off the unit as a separate entity.Uber Freight, the company’s long-haul trucking business, also has a separate valuation based on pools of equity specifically earmarked for the unit. As part of an agreement with employees, the company rewarded them with equity in Uber Freight as a stand-alone business late last year.SoftBank is already a major investor in Uber after it acquired about 17.5 percent of the ride-hailing firm’s stock last year at a significant discount. In addition to Uber, SoftBank has poured money into ride-hailing companies such as Ola in India and Grab in Southeast Asia.SoftBank has also invested in businesses focused on autonomous vehicles. In mid-2018, the firm invested $2.25 billion in GM Cruise Holdings, a division of General Motors. Structuring Cruise as a separate entity made it possible for General Motors to isolate the losses from its autonomous division.In August, Toyota invested $500 million in Uber. The move was meant to let Uber put its self-driving technology in Toyota vehicles.“Toyota constantly reviews and considers various options for investment, but we do not have anything to announce about a further investment in Uber at this time,” a Toyota spokeswoman said on Wednesday.For one day, the New York Stock Exchange was denim friendly.Levi Strauss & Company, the company that traces its roots to the days of the California Gold Rush, started trading publicly on Thursday for the second time in its 165-year history.Traders in New York were clad in denim pants and jean jackets, as the stock exchange suspended its prohibition on wearing jeans for the day. Levi’s also set up a “tailor shop” outside of the exchange where traders could personalize their denim.The company’s shares, which were priced at $17 each, rose 32 percent in their first day of trading, ending the day at $22.41 and pushing Levi’s valuation above $8.5 billion.“The floor looked awesome,” Charles V. Bergh, the company’s chief executive, said in a phone interview. “The irony is, there’s a sign when you walk onto the floor saying, ‘No jeans allowed.’”Levi’s has been undergoing a turnaround for the better part of the past decade under Mr. Bergh, who joined the company in 2011. The company, based in San Francisco, has yet to return to its peak of the 1990s, but the executive has overseen an increase in sales to $5.6 billion last year, with net profit of $285 million.[Being publicly traded is the latest chapter in the story of the 165-year-old company.]“The job is not done, but this is a big step and acknowledgment of the progress that we’ve made,” Mr. Bergh said. “The vision I had was to be and be seen as the world’s best apparel company — and among the best companies in any industry — in part because that’s what the company was in the ’60s, ’70s and ’80s.”The company was founded by Levi Strauss, who immigrated to the United States from Bavaria and set up shop in San Francisco in 1853 with a wholesale dry goods business. Twenty years later, he and a business partner received a patent for “waist overalls” with metal rivets at points of strain — a garment known today as the blue jean.The company first listed its shares in the 1970s, but was taken private in 1985 through a leveraged buyout led by descendants of Strauss, known as the Haas family. They wanted to take a longer-term view of the business rather than focus on short-term results and fluctuations. Strauss died without children in 1902 and left the company to his nephews. Family members have controlled the business ever since.Mr. Bergh said that Levi’s chose to return to public markets because of the renewed strength of the brand and its growth potential in categories like women’s apparel and international markets like China. Last year, tops accounted for 20 percent of the company’s sales while women’s apparel rose to 29 percent of revenue.He also said that investors had responded positively to the company’s reputation as one that would take a stand on social issues, like its decision in the 1990s to pull financial support from the Boy Scouts of America after the organization refused to admit gay members and leaders. In recent years, Mr. Bergh has attracted attention, some of it critical, for speaking out about gun violence and advocating gun control legislation.“There’s an acknowledgment that today consumers are buying brands that represent a good value, but they also buy into brands and companies that share their values,” he said.Levi’s raised more than $100 million from the offering, which it plans to use for general corporate purposes and possibly for acquisitions, according to its regulatory filings. Much of the offering’s proceeds will go to the Haas family.Members of the Haas family, known for their donations to the University of California, Berkeley, where the business school carries the family name, will hold about 80 percent of the voting shares after the offering.Levi’s showing on Thursday makes it one of the better performing recent I.P.O.s. Since the start of last year, shares of companies listing on American exchanges rose, on average, 14 percent during their first day of trading.The recent debuts of retailers have received a mixed reaction from investors. Shares of Farfetch, which went public last year, jumped 42 percent during their first day of trading. The stocks of Canada Goose and Duluth also performed well, rising 26 percent and 14 percent. Stitch Fix, though, finished essentially flat and J.Jill was down 3 percent.Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A best-selling Boeing airplane is groundedThe future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Trump’s next budget fightUndeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]Would a trade deal with China have too much compromise?In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”A big week for BrexitTomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.Jay Powell says Trump can’t fire himThe Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.The bull market is 10. Why so sad?We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”Twitter is struggling to change how we tweetA year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.” I.M.F. chief calls for a global tax shake-upIn an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Revolving doorSam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.The speed readDealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Reports from thousands of women that breast implants are causing problems like debilitating joint pain and fatigue, claims long dismissed by the medical profession, are receiving new attention from the Food and Drug Administration and researchers.This may be a long-awaited moment of validation for tens of thousands of women who have been brushed off as neurotic, looking to cash in on lawsuits or just victims of chance who coincidentally became ill while having implants. The F.D.A. has begun to re-examine questions about implant safety that have long been disputed by doctors and implant manufacturers, and that most consumers thought had been resolved a decade or so ago. Millions of women have implants, which are silicone sacs filled with either salt water or silicone gel, used to enlarge the breasts cosmetically or to rebuild them after a mastectomy for breast cancer.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]On Tuesday, the agency warned two makers of breast implants that they had failed to conduct adequate long-term studies of the devices’ effects on women’s health. Those studies were mandated as a condition of approving the implants, and the agency cautioned that the devices could be taken off the market if the research wasn’t properly carried out. The agency also issued a statement on Friday that applied to a broad array of medical devices, acknowledging that implanted devices may make some people sick. “A growing body of evidence suggests that a small number of patients may have biological responses to certain types of materials in implantable or insertable devices,” the agency said. Those effects can include “inflammatory reactions and tissue changes causing pain and other symptoms that may interfere with their quality of life.”The F.D.A. said it was gathering information to fill information gaps in the science “to further our understanding of medical device materials and improve the safety of devices for patients.” Silicone, used in implants, is one of the materials under scrutiny.And next week, the agency will hold a two-day meeting about breast implants, hearing from researchers, patient advocacy groups and manufacturers. One problem to be discussed is an uncommon cancer of the immune system called anaplastic large cell lymphoma, which has been detected so far in 457 women with breast implants, according to the F.D.A. Removing the implants usually eliminates the disease, but some women have also needed chemotherapy, and 17 deaths from the cancer have been reported worldwide.Nearly all the lymphoma cases have occurred in women who had implants with a textured surface, rather than a smooth one. Textured implants made by Allergan, a major manufacturer, were taken off the market in Europe in December. Smooth implants are used more often than textured ones in the United States.Another focus of the conference will be “breast implant illness,” which encompasses disorders that may involve the immune system and can cause muscle pain, fatigue, weakness, cognitive difficulties and other debilitating symptoms. Some ailments fall into a category called connective tissue disease, which includes lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and other serious autoimmune diseases.The F.D.A. website says the agency “has not detected any association between silicone gel-filled breast implants and connective tissue disease.” But it adds, “In order to rule out these and other complications, studies would need to be larger and longer than these conducted so far.”The new warnings are of potential concern to millions of women with implants. About 400,000 women in the United States get breast implants every year, including 300,000 for cosmetic reasons and 100,000 for reconstruction after mastectomies performed to treat or prevent breast cancer. Worldwide, about 10 million women have breast implants.The F.D.A.’s new focus on implants is a testament to the power of patient activism in the age of social media, as sick women frustrated by their doctors’ lack of answers sought information online, found other patients with similar complaints and banded together to demand regulatory action. One Facebook group has nearly 70,000 members, according to its founder, Nicole Daruda, a Vancouver Island woman who felt well when she got implants in 2005 for reconstruction after cancer surgery, but soon became so ill she had to stop working.Ms. Daruda had them removed in 2013, and said most, but not all, of her symptoms have lessened.Another patient activist, Jamee Cook, now 41, had implant surgery for cosmetic reasons when she was 21. Over the next few years she developed so many health problems, including fatigue, memory lapses, migraines and numbness in her hands, that she had to quit her job as a paramedic.After having the implants removed in 2015, she said, her health has improved. Though she still has some bad days, Ms. Cook said, “It’s been like a 180.”Silicone-filled breast implants were first marketed in the United States in the 1960s. Over the next few decades, reports of illness emerged. In 1992, silicone implants were banned, except for reconstruction after mastectomy or to replace a previous implant, and then only in clinical trials.A flood of lawsuits followed.Studies conducted afterward generally found no link to connective tissue disease, but a few did suggest a connection. In 1999, the Institute of Medicine, then part of the National Academy of Sciences, concluded that overall, there was no evidence that breast implants caused connective tissue disease, cancer, immune disorders or other ailments.In 2006, silicone implants came back on the market. But manufacturers were required to follow large numbers of women for seven to 10 years, as a condition for F.D.A. approval. Deficiencies in the studies have now prompted the agency to send warning letters to two of the four companies approved to market breast implants in the United States.One warning letter, sent to the manufacturer Sientra, of Santa Barbara, Calif. on Tuesday, said the company had not kept enough patients in its study of an implant approved in 2012, and warned that if the follow-up monitoring did not improve, the agency could withdraw approval of the implant, effectively taking it off the market. Rosalyn d’Incelli, vice president of clinical and medical affairs for Sientra, said the company tries to retain patients in follow-up studies by compensating them, contacting them several times a year through email, phone calls, letters and postcards, and transferring them to doctors in more convenient locations. But she said that patients’ work obligations, child care, lack of transportation and other issues often present obstacles.“We are aware of and take this matter seriously,” Ms. D’Incelli said, adding that the company will respond to the F.D.A. about corrective measures it plans to take. “Patient safety, ensuring long-term safety and effectiveness of our devices and complying with F.D.A.’s requirements are our highest priority.” Its stock price dropped a little more than four percent on the F.D.A. news. Last September, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused its former chief executive, Hani Zeini, of concealing damaging information about the manufacturer of its implants before closing a $60 million stock offering in 2015. The Brazilian manufacturer had had a certificate of compliance required for selling in the European Union suspended. Sientra said its issue with the S.E.C. had been resolved.The other letter went to Mentor Worldwide, owned by Johnson & Johnson and based in Irvine, Calif. The F.D.A. said the company had not enrolled enough patients in a study of its MemoryShape implant, approved in 2013, and also threatened to rescind approval for the product. Withdrawing approval for a medical device is time-consuming and rarely occurs. Mindy Tinsley, a spokeswoman for Mentor, said the company was disappointed by the F.D.A.'s decision to issue a warning letter "despite our good faith efforts to address post-approval study requirements." She said Mentor notified the FDA last year that it would fall short of study enrollment targets because of changes in consumer preferences, but did not hear back. J&J’s stock remained unaffected on Tuesday. According to the F.D.A., the other two manufacturers whose breast implants are approved in the United States are Allergan and Ideal Implant, which did not receive warning letters on Tuesday. But their implants have also drawn some illness-related complaints from women. Plastic surgeons and implant manufacturers often say breast implants are the most intensely studied of all medical devices. But critics and patient advocates say most studies done to date are flawed.“When plastic surgeons tell women that ‘this is the most studied medical device in the world,’ women assume that means they are proven safe,” said Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research in Washington, D.C., who has been advising advocates for patients with implant-related illness. But, “we still don’t know what percentage of women become seriously ill from their breast implants. We still don’t know why some women get sick right away, some get sick years later and some never get sick.”Dr. Zuckerman, trained in psychology and epidemiology, will speak at the F.D.A. meeting next week. She wrote a 40-page analysis of breast implant studies, and found that most had not tracked long-term outcomes, or had lost too many participants. In addition, she said, the studies focused only on diseases with specific diagnoses, while ignoring symptoms like joint pain and chronic fatigue. And they were generally too small to detect rare diseases, and were funded by implant manufacturers or plastic surgery associations that had a stake in the outcomes.Newer studies looking at long-term outcomes have found disproportionately high rates of some uncommon chronic diseases among women with implants, though these studies show only associations and do not prove a cause-and-effect relationship.Plastic surgeons at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston who looked at the long term outcomes of 99,993 women with silicone implants reported finding they had six, seven and eight times the normal population rates of rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma (a connective tissue disease) and Sjogren syndrome (an autoimmune disorder), all of which are relatively rare diseases.An author of the study, Dr. Mark Clemens, cautioned that it did not prove cause and effect, and said in an interview, “The overarching message is that breast implants are reasonably safe and have high patient satisfaction, but also have complications that patients should be made aware of.”Critics said the study, published in Annals of Surgery in September, did not adjust for underlying differences between women with and without implants, and that the data, drawn from the F.D.A.’s own database, was flawed because of high dropout rates. “All the evidence we have to date is that implants are safe,” said Dr. Amy S. Colwell, a plastic surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston who wrote an editorial criticizing the study, and who is a consultant for Allergan, an implant manufacturer.An Israeli study published in December that was based on a health insurer’s medical records, compared 24,651 women with silicone breast implants to 98,602 similar women without implants, and found that those with implants had a 22 percent increase in the risk of having any auto-immune or rheumatic disorder. It also found higher rates of Sjogrens, scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as other illnesses.“Implants are not so innocent as presented,” said Dr. Howard Amital, a rheumatologist who was the study’s senior author. Though he acknowledged the study does not prove a causal relationship, he said that the association between implants and the disorders “is highly indicative.”  “There is a reason for concern,” he added. “There is something we cannot ignore.”WASHINGTON — The United States and China are pushing for a summit meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, while negotiators are still grappling over its terms and how they should be enforced.Although much remains unsettled, one thing is becoming clear: The Trump administration will continue to hold the threat of tariffs over Beijing to ensure that it lives up to whatever commitments it agrees to in the final deal. That approach is prompting concern among American businesses that the economic damage and uncertainty caused by President Trump’s trade war could persist even once negotiations are resolved.On Friday, a report commissioned by the nation’s biggest business lobbying group showed that the Trump administration’s tariffs are actually damaging an industry the levies were intended to protect. The report, by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Rhodium Group, a research firm, said that Mr. Trump’s tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods were eroding the competitiveness of the America information technology sector — including companies that manufacture computers, electronics and telecom equipment, as well as provide services like cloud computing, computer-aided design and customer relations.The report estimated that the tariffs, if they remain in place, would reduce United States gross domestic product by at least $1 trillion within 10 years. The American G.D.P. was about $20.5 trillion in 2018.The business community, along with both Democrats and Republicans in Congress, have been critical of Mr. Trump’s tariffs but they have been willing to carry the costs of Mr. Trump’s trade war if it brings about needed change. Executives across industries say they support efforts by Mr. Trump to reset an economic relationship that has too often put United States companies and workers at a disadvantage.“There’s no cheap way to pursue these kinds of policy objectives,” said Daniel Rosen, a founding partner of the Rhodium Group, a research firm with extensive experience in China, and one of the authors of the report.Businesses have long complained of unfair treatment in the Chinese market, including pressure to hand over valuable technology and discrimination against foreign companies operating there. The Trump administration has calculated that China’s hacking intrusions and coerced acquisitions of technology cost American companies at least $50 billion a year alone.But it remains unclear whether Mr. Trump’s final deal will achieve the kind of change that would make the fight worth the cost. American negotiators have been pushing China for more substantive economic changes than it seems willing to accept, including rolling back subsidies to Chinese companies and lowering barriers to foreign competition.China’s lawmakers last week passed a sweeping rewrite to its laws on foreign investment. While the reforms are a nod to Mr. Trump’s concerns, some China experts criticized the language as overly broad and say it represents only a step toward the kind of more transformative changes that are needed.The president has insisted he could “walk” if America does not get what it wants from China. But he also wants to avoid further roiling a jittery stock market, which has fallen on news of a prolonged trade war, and to limit economic damage ahead of the 2020 election.That is prompting concern among Republican lawmakers and American businesses that Mr. Trump could ultimately accept a weak deal that includes high-profile purchases of American products like liquid natural gas and soybeans but only vague and ultimately unenforceable commitments in more important areas of structural reform.On Thursday, Mr. Trump lauded the Chinese as “very responsible and very reasonable,” and said there would be news on China “one way or the other” over the next three to four weeks.“We could snatch defeat from the jaws of victory fairly easily here,” said Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist. He said that the president had succeeded in amping up leverage on China, but that the administration risked squandering that leverage for a deal that focused primarily on product purchases.“Nobody thought Trump would be able to pull it off — he has,” Mr. Bannon added. “Now you might throw it away.”The administration had been pushing toward a signing summit meeting with Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping to resolve the trade conflict at the end of March. But outstanding differences over how the two sides would roll back their tariffs and enforce their agreement have prolonged the talks.In a meeting last week, the president huddled with Vice President Mike Pence, the trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and other advisers to discuss whether China is serious about offering concessions or if it was merely paying lip service to Mr. Trump, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said Thursday that the administration was “pleased with the progress” of the talks and that “a lot of documents” were moving back and forth but acknowledged that a signing ceremony this month was out of the question.“We still have more work to do,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “It’s more important we get the right agreement and not rush it, but we’re working diligently to try to do this as quickly as possible.”The Chinese are now pushing for Mr. Xi’s trip to take the form of a state visit to Washington, though plans are still in flux, people with knowledge of the discussions said.Susan Shirk, chairwoman of the 21st Century China Center at the School of Global Policy and Strategy at the University of California, San Diego, said it would take negotiators time to test which of the objectives the Chinese were able to give ground on, and which they were not.“If my supposition that this is actually a more professional negotiation, a more serious one, is correct, then it’s not surprising it would need more time,” Ms. Shirk said. “It doesn’t mean things are bad.”Mr. Trump’s summit meeting in February with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, which ended abruptly when Mr. Trump felt the other side was not producing enough concessions, may be another reason the United States-China event has been pushed back. The Chinese are wary of sending their president halfway around the world only to return empty-handed. They have been trying to iron out the details beforehand.“We don’t need another U.S.-North Korea summit, where so much was left unresolved, and in which both sides were hoping through the force of personality to persuade the other side to their viewpoint,” said Gary Locke, an American ambassador to China during the Obama administration. “You need all the minutiae negotiated ahead of time.”A final deal could also be stymied by America’s insistence that it be allowed to use tariffs against China if Beijing does not uphold its end of the agreement. China is pushing for the United States to lift all the tariffs the administration has already imposed and there is concern among Chinese officials about agreeing to a deal that does not remove all the tariffs or that allows the United States to impose additional levies in the future.Mr. Trump has previously suggested the United States could keep some tariffs in place, even if a deal is reached.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New York Times in January.In testimony before Congress last week, Mr. Lighthizer declined to specify whether the administration would lift all of its tariffs when a deal is struck, or hold some of the levies in place and roll them back only once China accomplishes certain reforms. People familiar with Mr. Lighthizer’s thinking say he prefers the latter approach, but he could yet be overruled if the White House is eager to secure a deal.In China, the tone has turned more positive, potentially presaging a conclusion to the talks. Xinhua, China’s state news agency, reported that Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Lighthizer spoke with Vice Premier Liu He by phone on Thursday and made “further substantial progress” on the text of the deal.In San Francisco, where start-ups dream of populating the world with self-driving cars and robots, another breed of company is aiming for riches this week: Levi Strauss & Company.The maker of denim and Dockers, which traces its roots to the California Gold Rush, Levi’s will start trading on the public markets on Thursday for the second time in its 165-year history. The listing is a milestone for Levi’s, which has experienced a resurgence in the past decade, overhauling its image, operations and the stretch in its jeans to resonate with today’s shoppers who are increasingly disposed to athleisure wear.Levi’s, some say, might even be cool again.“It took them time but they’ve been able to restore a lot of brand equity,” said Marie Driscoll, a managing director who covers fashion and luxury at Coresight Research. “They have their authentic product that they’ve been making forever but adapted to what consumers want today.”This week’s stock offering, which the company anticipates will raise more than $100 million, is an accomplishment for the chief executive, Charles V. Bergh, and highlights Levi’s ambitions to expand its apparel lines both in the United States and worldwide. Shares of the company are expected to sell for $14 to $16, which would value Levi’s between $5.4 billion and $6.2 billion.Levi’s, which invented the blue jean in 1873, is woven into America’s history. Once the uniform of cowboys and miners in the American West, the company’s denim went on to be worn by Hollywood stars like Marlon Brando, concertgoers at Woodstock and the young nationwide. But the company hit a series of challenges starting in the 1990s beyond the usual fluctuations in consumer tastes.New teenage retailers, streetwear companies and low-cost private labels started to eat into its market share. Designer jeans gained appeal on the high end. Then came stumbles from some of the department stores selling its goods. More recently, Levi’s has faced fresh competition from athleisure brands.While the company was bumping along, it began a full-fledged makeover in 2011 with the appointment of Mr. Bergh, who is known as Chip and joined Levi’s after nearly three decades at Procter & Gamble. Under him, sales have risen and the brand has been imbued with new energy. Its name is now on a sports stadium, it introduced lasers to distress its jeans and it opened a giant flagship store in Times Square.Now Levi’s — which falls between the Gap brand and Ralph Lauren in terms of sales — is looking to regain the sales it attained in the ’90s, when its revenue exceeded $7 billion.The company declined to comment for this article, citing restrictions ahead of its stock offering.Levi’s has a long history. Levi Strauss, who immigrated to the United States from Bavaria, set up shop in San Francisco in 1853 with a wholesale dry goods business. Twenty years later, he and a business partner received a patent for “waist overalls” with metal rivets at points of strain — a garment now known as the blue jean.“The reason they were patenting this, and a huge part of advertisements around that time, was that they made the pants more durable,” said Emma McClendon, associate curator of costume at the Museum at Fashion Institute of Technology. “So you could put tons of tools or things in your pockets while digging for gold, working on farms, all these things, and the pockets wouldn’t come apart from the jeans.”Jeans started to become mainstream garments in the 1920s and ’30s with the rise of Hollywood Westerns, dude ranch vacations and romanticized images of cowboys. In the ’60s, Levi’s became, in the words of Ms. McClendon, “the de facto uniform of the hippie,” increasing its broader popularity. Mr. Strauss died without children in 1902 and he left the company to his nephews. Family members have controlled the business ever since.The company first listed its shares in the 1970s, but was taken private in 1985 through a leveraged buyout led by descendants of Levi Strauss, the Haas family. They wanted to take a longer-term view of the business rather than focus on short-term results.Levi’s expects to sell $500 million to $675 million of stock in its return to the public markets. Much of the proceeds from the offering will go to the Haas family. The family will hold about 80 percent of the voting shares after the offering.Levi’s brought in $5.6 billion in sales last year with a net profit of $285 million. That’s an increase from the start of Mr. Bergh’s tenure — the year he joined the company, it had $4.8 billion in sales — but still well below its ’90s peak.Mr. Bergh, 61, was involved with the integration of Gillette after Procter & Gamble’s $57 billion acquisition of the brand in 2005 and has viewed the turnaround of Levi’s as his opportunity to leave a legacy.When he joined the business, he set out to address “very fundamental issues,” he said on a podcast last year, pointing to a stalled brand and debt-burdened balance sheet.“There wasn’t a clear strategy,” he said. “We hadn’t been investing in building the brand, we hadn’t been investing in innovation, we were really disconnected with the consumer, our advertising was not working.”The company has since introduced a new tagline, “Live in Levi’s,” increased its ad spending and bought the naming rights to the San Francisco 49ers stadium, the site of the Super Bowl in 2016.It has also made big reductions to its staff, cut its debt and invested in a local facility called the Eureka Innovation Lab. The company credits the lab with “cutting-edge advancements for our company and the industry” in its regulatory filings, including the “four-way stretch fabric” that was part of its women’s jeans relaunch in 2015. Levi’s also hired a chief strategy and artificial intelligence officer this year.Crucially, the company, which still makes most of its revenue through wholesale channels like department stores, has sought to lift sales through its own shops and websites in recent years. Last year, direct sales accounted for 35 percent of its revenue.Levi’s has also been expanding in tops — which accounted for 20 percent of sales last year — and women’s apparel, which increased to 29 percent of its sales last year. The company has been generating buzz around its women’s denim, including its so-called Wedgie jean.While Levi’s has benefited from the work Mr. Bergh has done, it has also been helped by “a tide back to denim,” Ms. Driscoll said. Other companies have seen those results as well, particularly companies selling lower-cost denim in the post-recession era. (One forecast said the average price of a pair of jeans would fall to around $32 last year.)“Since the economic collapse in 2008 to 2010, that whole period, using expensive apparel to communicate who you are just isn’t as cool as it was,” Ms. Driscoll said.One of the biggest challenges that Mr. Bergh and Levi’s have faced in recent years has been the boom in the all-mighty yoga pant. Coresight Research said in a recent report that United States imports of women’s elastic knit pants surpassed imports of women’s blue denim pants in 2017. Levi’s has mitigated some of that issue with the stretch it added to its jeans. “It drives me crazy that women wear yoga pants to nice restaurants — denim would look so much better,” Mr. Bergh wrote in an essay for Harvard Business Review last year. “But they’re choosing athleisure because it’s more comfortable. I told our designers that we had to fix this problem.”The company sought to convey its trendiness in its regulatory filings this month. It described how Beyoncé wore Levi’s cutoff shorts while performing at Coachella in April 2018 as well as its collaborations with Justin Timberlake and the Air Jordan brand from Nike.This week’s offering gives the company and its owners some new flexibility, said Mike Zuccaro, a Moody’s analyst. Mr. Zuccaro said he was impressed with how the company has been able to withstand difficult trends within the retail industry and focus on areas where it can grow.He added, “The challenges are still there in U.S. retail and everywhere, really, but it says a lot about what Levi’s has been able to do in that environment.” Stephen Grocer contributed reporting. The bond market smells a recession. On Friday, stock investors caught a whiff, too.Economic forecasters and Wall Street traders have been watching for months as interest rates on long-term United States government bonds have dropped toward the rates on short-term debt.Investors normally demand higher yields to buy longer-term bonds, and when those long-term yields decline it can signal a slowdown in economic growth. On rare occasions, long-term yields can actually fall below yields on short-term bonds — a “yield curve inversion” in the parlance of the markets. Such unusual occurrences have preceded every recession over the last 60 years.And it happened on Friday. The inversion followed a sharp decline on yields on long-term Treasury bonds this week after the Federal Reserve decided on Wednesday to leave interest rates unchanged and signaled that it was unlikely to raise rates through the end of 2019. But a round of dour economic data from Europe actually pushed the measure into inverted territory. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled to 2.44 percent Friday, its lowest level since January 2018. That was just below the 2.45 percent yield on three-month Treasury bills. There are many different ways to measure the yield curve. On Wall Street, many analysts look at the difference between yields on two-year and 10-year Treasury notes, which has not yet inverted. But research from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has cited the yield difference between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year Treasury notes — which inverted Friday — as the most reliable predictor of recession risk. Traders in the stock market picked up on the downbeat signal. The S&P 500 had been climbing despite a recent drop in bond yields, effectively shrugging off the decline as further evidence that the Fed would keep rates low for the foreseeable future. Keeping rates low has been a good thing for stocks over the past 10 years. But on Friday, the S&P 500 fell 1.9 percent, as stock market investors grew concerned about the outlook for economic growth. It was the second-worst drop for the market this year. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.5 percent. Experts on interpreting the predictive power of the yield curve cautioned that a single day of an inverted yield curve doesn’t necessarily mean the economy will tumble into recession. Campbell Harvey, a Duke University finance professor whose research first showed the predictive power of the yield curve in the mid-1980s, stressed that an inversion must last, on average, three months before it can credibly be said to be sending a clear signal. If that does occur, history shows that the economy will fall into a recession over the next nine to 18 months. But even with the yield curve’s track record for predicting recessions, Professor Harvey emphasized that there was no such thing as certainty in economic forecasting. “A model is just a model,” he said. “It’s not an oracle. It helps us forecast the future, but it might at any point fail.”PARIS — Few luxury brand chief executives are likely to appear as cheerful as Cyrille Vigneron.While many companies continue to grapple with economic jitters in key markets and volatile currency exchange, growth in the fine jewelry sector appears to be largely sheltered from the storm. And Cartier, the high jewelry house where Mr. Vigneron took the helm in 2016, is the jewel in the crown of its parent group, Richemont, which also owns labels like Dunhill, Jaeger-LeCoultre and Van Cleef & Arpels.Richemont has undergone a period of recent and rapid change, from brand introductions, acquisitions and a management shake-up, to a revamped online strategy amid a flattened watch market (timepieces account for 37 percent of group sales).Throughout, however, Cartier has consistently remained its star performer, driving double digit growth for Richemont fine jewelry in the first half of 2019 and making its premium pricing and margin models the envy of rivals in the sector.According to an annual ranking of the world’s top 100 brands, compiled by the research company Kantar and its brand strategy business Millward Brown, Cartier was valued at $7.04 billion last year. (Richemont does not directly break down brand-by-brand performance results within its earning reports).“A revitalized Cartier remains the main reason to hold Richemont stock,” Rogerio Fujimori, luxury analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a recent note to investors. “Thanks to Cartier’s strong comeback under the leadership of Cyrille Vigneron, including in watches, its margins are higher than those at jewelry maisons owned by LVMH or Kering.”For Mr. Vigneron, the appointment as chief executive of the house was something of a homecoming. He initially joined Cartier in 1988, serving in a variety of positions there and within the Richemont stable for 25 years before being hired as president of LVMH Japan in 2013. After being lured back to take the top job at Cartier, he took on a series of bold decisions to move the maison into the 21st century.“Put simply, I had three main areas of focus,” Mr. Vigneron said over a pot of tea in Paris earlier this month. “One, to re-establish Cartier’s brand territory in a fast-moving and global market. Two, to reconsider all product lines and make sure they fell firmly within the vision of those new parameters. And three, to revitalize our retail and communication strategies, which had become a bit conventional and dusty.“Cartier has long been a leader because of the timelessness of our designs and craftsmanship,” he added. “However the challenge is also to feel timely, and to express that to clients of both new generations and geographies.”In addition to a wide scale buyback of timepieces in 2017 (to avoid them being sold at knockdown prices) and the revitalization of signature styles from Love and Juste un Clou to Tutti Frutti or Coloratura high jewelry masterpieces, there have been several new lines, the latest of which is scheduled to debut next month. Mr. Vigneron stayed tight-lipped on specifics, although he did mention the collection would include rings and bracelets.“I don’t think there has been a striking new ring launch in the jewelry market for a decade. I think this one can be, and I feel confident that we will sell it for years to come alongside our best-known collections that have never lost their appeal,” he said. “A worrying jewelry trend in recent years has been this rush to produce novelty or flash-in-the pan items. But distinctiveness is more important than newness in this business. That is what will stand the test of time.”Revaluation and rigorous testing of pricing strategies was another key priority. According to Mr. Vigneron, a common thread of contemporary luxury is that customers are savvier than ever before about the value of the jewelry they buy.“Luxury used to be a field of secrecy, but the world is more transparent in terms of what is worth what today. As a fine jeweler, you also have to be realistic about the value judgments your clients are then in a position to make,” he said, noting that values and spending patterns differ across different markets.For example, millennials in the West — where the next generation is less affluent than its parents — shy away from big-ticket items, opting for more accessibly priced pieces that better fit into their less ostentatious, more casual lives.In the upwardly mobile East, the opposite is happening.“We don’t cater to need, we cater to desire,” Mr. Vigneron said. “So more and more, pricing in luxury is an art in itself and you need to ensure the right product is available for customers at every entry point to the Cartier brand. People of all backgrounds are more than willing to buy into a dream, but it has to be at the right price.”In an evermore competitive market, however, this also means meeting customers in new ways. For Cartier, that meant investing heavily in renovating key flagship locations, including New Bond Street in London, which reopened in December, and ensuring these stores could also be used for meetings and events. The house also has hosted several high-profile museum-style exhibitions of key pieces from its archives, and reconsidered its product introductions. To celebrate the unveiling of the new Santos de Cartier watch in San Francisco last year, for example, Cartier held three days of talks with modern-day creative figures, campaigners and entrepreneurs.“As digital gets evermore important so, too, has sharing, learning and finding a community in the physical world, too. If a luxury brand can move beyond product and also facilitate those relationships as they then develop both on and offline, then it is a very powerful thing,” Mr. Vigneron said.A greater focus on such encounters, and on data to understand market changes better and to identify potential customers and how to reach them, has become paramount, he said. So has adapting to client needs and desires as they are shaped by shifting societal trends.“Traditionally, luxury has always been a very centralized business, both physically and philosophically,” Mr. Vigneron said. “The guardian of the temple will remain an artistic director, but today you also need to democratize and spread and test yourself across new markets — far beyond just your stores — in order to really resonate wherever you are.“Inclusivity is critical to most many luxury shoppers who are shaping today’s industry.”For Cartier, beyond building its local teams worldwide, this has meant experimenting by, for example, adapting its video and social media campaigns for different cultures (like deciding its Sofia Coppola-directed video was too provocative and creating a different video for Middle Eastern markets) or male celebrities (like Lu Han in China) to model high jewelry designs directed at women. A retail innovation lab to test new technologies has been opened in Brooklyn, with sites in Tokyo and Shanghai planned for later this year.Such heavy investments do not come without their risks. Fears around a luxury slowdown has rattled stock markets in recent months, fueled further lately by the knock-on effect of months of “Yellow Vest” protests against perceived social and economic inequities in France, which have roiled Paris. For his part, Mr. Vigneron remained upbeat, noting an ongoing sales momentum for Cartier in both the Asia-Pacific and North American markets.“Luxury spending is less impacted by political or social uncertainty than you might think, especially in jewelry where purchases tend to hold their value far longer than, say, shoes or handbags. Things only really change dramatically when stock markets or real estate values start to crash,” he said. “What you are currently seeing, thanks to this more turbulent market, is the difference between those brands who are doing very well in this climate and those who are not.”Mr. Vigneron added that this difference was not about large brands versus smaller rivals, though he acknowledged being backed by a large group could make a real difference to the prospects of a business.“There are lots of big and well-known names spending a lot of money still getting it wrong, and a lot of small independent labels getting it right,” he said. “The key now is about maximizing brand recognition while steadily upping your brand territory. You cannot have any confusion about who you are or where you need to be. You must know your narrative inside out.”“Here at Cartier,” he added with a grin. “We know we have become pretty good at storytelling.”Global markets mainly fell on Monday, setting the stage for a lower opening on Wall Street as investors digested a spate of bad news from the United States and Europe.Japan led the decline, though stocks fell broadly across Asia. The downturn carried over into European markets, but some indexes shed their losses through the day. Futures that allow investors to bet on the direction of the American stock market suggested that Wall Street would fall when trading started.Chinese officials over the weekend signaled their eagerness to strike a deal with the Trump administration to bring the trade war between the two countries to an end — the sort of thing that has sometimes cheered markets in the past. But investors on Monday were still grappling with a signal from the United States on Friday that the world’s biggest economy faces the threat of falling into recession.In Japan, the Nikkei 225 stock index finished 3 percent lower on Monday, in the region’s biggest drop. Elsewhere, the Shanghai Composite index and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng both closed about 2 percent lower.European markets, which fell on Friday after some dour economic news, lost ground in early trading on Monday but then moderated. By early afternoon London’s FTSE 100 was about 0.6 percent lower, while the CAC 40 in Paris and the DAX index in Frankfurt were about 0.2 percent lower.In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 index finished down 1.1 percent. South Korea’s stock market, as based on the Kospi stock index, fell 1.9 percent.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Lyft’s stock market debut has set up its founders, employees, early backers and even those who scored shares in the initial public offering Thursday night for quite a windfall.But not everyone who invested in the company is reaping the spoils.Shares of the ride-hailing company rose nearly 9 percent on Friday. At over $26 billion, Lyft’s market value is almost double what private investors valued it at less than a year ago.But Lyft’s first-day gain is measured off the I.P.O. price (which was set on Thursday, when shares were divided up mostly among large funds). Ordinary investors who wanted in had to wait to buy the stock until it was available on public markets on Friday, and at a much higher price than the big funds paid.And those who bought as soon as trading began are already sitting on losses of a little more than 11 percent.It serves as an important reminder that amid all the hoopla around trading debuts, small investors wind up taking a lot of the risk. Most of the gains on the first day of trading for a stock are realized with the first trade.[Unicorns are riding into the public markets, and their elite early investors will be the biggest winners.]Over the past decade, companies listing shares on American stock exchanges have increased 14 percent from their I.P.O. price, according to Dealogic. But nearly all of the rise has come at the opening trade.That dynamic has played out in many of the prominent I.P.O.s in recent years. Facebook shares opened 10 percent higher on their first day of trading and then proceeded to give back almost all those gains to finish essentially unchanged for the day.Etsy was an extreme example of this. Its stock soared 94 percent on its first day of trading, but investors who bought at the open actually lost 3 percent by the close of trading.And it’s not just tech companies. Levi Strauss recently made its return to the public markets, selling shares to investors at $17 a piece on March 20. The stock opened the next day at $22.22, a 31 percent jump. For the rest of trading that day, though, it climbed less than 1 percent.Of course, if Lyft keeps growing as fast as Wall Street hopes it will, or works out how to turn a profit, then even the latecomers could wind up with respectable returns. Facebook shares are up more than 300 percent since their first day of trading, and after Etsy struggled for its first three years as a public company, its shares have more than doubled since they started trading.Still, not being able to buy at the I.P.O. price also greatly affects returns over the next year. Investors who bought shares at the offering price have averaged a 22 percent increase over the past decade. Returns for those that bought at the open? Sixty percent less.Centene, a major insurer that has significantly expanded under the Affordable Care Act, is making a bold bet as the Trump administration renews its attacks on the federal health law.The company announced on Wednesday that it had agreed to buy WellCare, a smaller publicly held insurer based in Florida, for about $15.3 billion.The deal would create a health care giant that specialized in offering private health plans under the enormous government programs Medicare and Medicaid. The combined company, with revenues expected to approach $100 billion in 2019, would cover 22 million people in all 50 states.If the deal goes through, the acquisition of WellCare will cement Centene’s dominance in Medicaid coverage, the state-federal program for the poor, as well as in the Obamacare market, where it is the largest player.It would also increase the company’s presence in the growing market for private plans under Medicare, the federal program for seniors.“We will be a leader in Medicaid, Medicare and the health insurance markets,” Michael F. Neidorff, the chief executive of Centene, told investors on Wednesday morning.“We do get a lot of scale,” Mr. Neidorff said later in a telephone interview. Centene has been eager to expand its offerings in Medicare, he said, particularly in plans geared to lower-income adults. “We pick up a good solid Medicare platform,” he said.The Trump administration has been promoting private Medicare Advantage plans, including allowing them to offer additional benefits, and the market has proved lucrative for insurers.Mr. Neidorff added that WellCare would be able to increase its presence in the Obamacare market. WellCare’s chief executive, Ken Burdick, said in a statement, “We are enthusiastic about the opportunity to create a high-performing combined business focused on government-sponsored managed care that will bring benefits to all of our stakeholders.”The deal is the latest in a flurry of mergers among health insurers that are scrambling to better position themselves in a tumultuous time for the industry.Earlier in the week, the Justice Department stunned health care experts and even some Republicans by asking a federal appeals court to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act. If successful, the lawsuit would largely dismantle the individual market and reverse Medicaid expansion in three dozen states.House Democrats introduced a proposal on Tuesday to bolster the law through a series of provisions like increasing federal subsidies, but there is also talk among Democrats of adopting a much broader “Medicare for all” program. Some proposals supported by 2020 presidential candidates would do away with private insurers altogether.“Everybody is trying to anticipate what the health care environment is going to look like in the next decade,” said Les Funtleyder, a portfolio manager at E Squared who owns shares of Centene. The premise behind expanding Centene’s foothold “is the government is going to play a role regardless of what happens in the U.S.,” he said.The acquisition would help insulate Centene from the continued threats against the federal health law, Mr. Funtleyder added. “It almost doesn’t matter if the A.C.A. is repealed, because somebody is going to manage Medicare and Medicaid,” he said.Unlike other health insurers, Centene has aggressively moved into the volatile Obamacare markets in various states. The company had already become a major presence in Medicaid through its purchase of other plans, like New York’s Fidelis Care. Mr. Neidorff, who would remain as chief executive of the combined companies, played down the political risks facing the two companies. He dismissed the idea that the health care law would succumb to the current constitutional battle in the courts or to some Republican lawmakers’ renewed calls to repeal the law.“The Republicans lost the House on this issue,” he said.Legal experts and others agree that the federal law has proved resilient, despite the myriad legal challenges and steps by Republicans to weaken it. Most believe other courts, possibly including the Supreme Court, will uphold the law.Public support has also significantly increased, said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown University, who has closely followed the law’s travails. “When it’s most on the ropes, it’s been the most popular,” she said.Mr. Neidorff also discounted the idea that the Democrats would adopt a sweeping Medicare for all proposal that would eliminate private insurers. The Democrats, including the party’s leadership, “know they can’t afford it,” he said. Lawmakers could also expand both Medicare and Medicaid using private insurance companies.Investors reacted warily to the news of the deal, sending Centene’s stock down nearly 9 percent before it recovered to close at $52.12, down 5 percent from the previous day. Investors may have been disappointed that a bigger insurer, like Humana, would now be unlikely to seek to acquire Centene, said Ana Gupte, a stock analyst for SVB Leerink.The two insurers also have some overlapping businesses that could raise antitrust concerns, Ms. Gupte said. “From a regulatory standpoint, it’s not a given,” she said, noting that “the odds are in their favor.”But Ms. Gupte also said the political environment might give investors pause.“There’s a lot of uncertainty,” she said, as Republican and Democratic lawmakers take strikingly different stances over what the health care system should look like heading into the 2020 presidential race. “It’s constantly being whiplashed from one end of the political spectrum to another.”Under the terms of the deal, which also includes about $2 billion in debt, Centene would pay a fixed amount of its own shares and $120 in cash for each WellCare share. That amounts to about $305.39 per WellCare share based on closing stock prices on Tuesday, or about 32 percent above WellCare’s closing price. On Wednesday, WellCare stock closed at $259.81, reflecting some investor skepticism over the deal.The combined company would be based in Centene’s home of St. Louis, and Centene shareholders would own about 71 percent of the business.The deal is expected to close by June 30, 2020, pending the approval of regulators and both companies’ shareholders.ISTANBUL — Turkey’s banking regulator has announced that it will begin an inquiry into JPMorgan Chase for providing “misleading and manipulative” investment advice that, it said, prompted a run on the Turkish lira last week.The Banking Regulation and Supervision Board issued a statement saying it had received a large number of complaints about a JPMorgan research report to clients on Friday that “caused volatility in the financial markets and loss of reputation and value especially for the banks of our country.”The lira, which has been slipping in value over the last year, slumped more than 5 percent on Friday, dropping in value to 5.7 to the United States dollar from 5.4, while Turkey’s main stock exchange fell 3.45 percent.The board said its investigation would also look into activities of other banks, but it did not name them.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has frequently accused foreign powers of orchestrating the currency crisis, and at a huge campaign rally in Istanbul on Sunday, he accused unnamed actors in the financial sector of trying to provoke a run on the lira.“We all know who you are, we all know what you are all doing,” he said. “You should know that after the elections, we will make you to pay a heavy price. You would not be able to exploit this nation. You would not be able to cheat this nation.”Economists, though, say a loss of confidence in the management of the economy and rule of law in Turkey is behind the weakening of the lira.It is unclear how the inquiry will progress or what penalties could be imposed, but the board said it would undertake “necessary administrative and legal proceedings.” In a related announcement, the Capital Markets Board of Turkey said it was conducting its own investigation into JPMorgan over the same report.JPMorgan analysts warned in the report that the Turkish lira might depreciate soon after local elections scheduled for Sunday. A spokesman for JPMorgan declined to comment.In a sign of its concern at the renewed volatility in financial markets, Turkey’s Central Bank announced on Friday that it would suspend one-week repo auctions — closing the spigot on one source of cash for banks — for a period of time, which analysts called an unusual move.Turkey has experienced severe economic pressures over the last year, and government figures released this month showed that the country had entered a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth. The lira lost 28 percent of its value last year as foreign investment stalled amid soaring private sector debt.Mr. Erdogan, who has assumed increased powers since winning re-election last summer, announced that he would take on greater responsibility for the economy and even decisions at the Central Bank. He appointed Berat Albayrak, his son-in-law, minister of finance and Treasury.Mr. Albayrak said in a television interview on Friday that Turkey had already resolved its most pressing vulnerabilities: inflation and budget discipline. “A healthy environment that would provide security for international markets has settled in Turkey,” he said, promising a period of reform over the rest of Mr. Erdogan’s five-year term. “Our way is open. We are very comfortable.”Even as inflation and unemployment figures have risen sharply, Mr. Erdogan has been undeterred, personally leading two or three rallies around the country a day for his Justice and Development Party. The election campaign has been especially nasty, with mudslinging and lawsuits leveled at candidates as polls show a close race in some of the most important cities, including the capital, Ankara.At the campaign rally on Sunday, Mr. Erdogan vowed to fight outside influences trying to weaken the economy.“Beware, folks, do not take their words for it,” he said. “We will protect our money. Our money is the Turkish lira. We will protect it. We will not rise to the bait. And we will make them pay the price.”Lyft was not the first ride-hailing company. But it is poised to become the first publicly traded one, and investors’ appetite for its shares proved enormous.The company priced its shares at $72 each on Thursday, after raising its price range amid significant demand from prospective shareholders. That puts Lyft’s value at more than $24 billion as it prepares to begin trading on the Nasdaq stock market on Friday, under the ticker symbol LYFT.In total, the company raised about $2.3 billion, having also increased the number of shares that were sold. (That amount could grow if Lyft’s underwriters sell an additional block of shares to meet even stronger-than-expected investor demand.)The offering marks the arrival of a new generation of Silicon Valley darlings on the public markets. Many of the companies promised new business models, upended established industries such as transportation and triggered a chain effect on how people work and make a living. The public offerings cement the place of the companies in people’s lives, promise millions of dollars in investment gains for their longtime backers and are set to unleash a new wave of wealth in the tech industry.[Lyft’s shares soared on Friday when it began trading on public markets.]Among those set to follow in Lyft’s footsteps is its archrival, Uber, whose initial public offering in the next few months is expected to be the biggest in years. Others on the docket include the digital pin board company Pinterest, the messaging platform Slack and the delivery service Postmates, all betting that they will also gain enthusiastic backing from investors.“The strong demand for Lyft certainly bodes well for other unicorns,” said Jay Ritter, a professor at the University of Florida’s Warrington College of Business, using a term for start-ups valued at $1 billion or more.But some investors worry that these companies, awash in red ink and unlikely to turn a profit for years, are being valued too highly and could ultimately disappoint their new public-market backers. Some companies that went public while running big losses, including Groupon and Snap, now trade well below their I.P.O. prices.In its offering prospectus, Lyft revealed that it lost close to $1 billion in 2018. Lyft and Uber regularly lose money in their competition to win new markets, where they spend amply on subsidies for riders and drivers. The companies also burn cash on other transportation initiatives, like bikes, scooters and autonomous vehicles. Last year, Lyft bought the largest bike-sharing company in the United States for around $250 million.“With Lyft, obviously, the market is saying, ‘We’re willing to give you the benefit of the doubt on a lot of things,’ given that there are huge uncertainties about its future,” Mr. Ritter said.At its I.P.O. price, Lyft’s market value puts it within range of old-line auto companies like Ford Motor. It is a significant increase from the $15.1 billion that Lyft earned in its last private fund-raising round last year.Over the past week and a half, Lyft executives and their bankers embarked on a roadshow that took them from New York to Kansas City to San Francisco, pitching their business to institutional investors. Lyft initially set a price range of $62 to $68 for its shares, before raising that range on Wednesday to $70 to $72. The offering was led by JPMorgan Chase and Credit Suisse.Between 2001 and 2018, I.P.O.s that were priced above their initial range averaged a return of 37 percent, Mr. Ritter said.But Lyft must now prove that it is worth the eye-popping valuation bestowed upon it by its new public-market investors. That challenge includes maintaining its enviable growth rate — it more than doubled its revenue in 2018 — while showing that its focus on transportation, rather than branching out into ever-more business lines as Uber has, can be lucrative.The offering’s success will bring windfalls for Lyft’s biggest existing investors. Among them: the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, who are poised to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars; Rakuten, the Japanese e-commerce giant; and venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz.Though Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer are taking their company public, they will still retain control, following in a long tradition of founder-led technology businesses. The two own special holdings that give them nearly 49 percent of voting shares, despite owning less than 5 percent of the overall stock.Lyft also plans to give cash bonuses to drivers who have completed a large number of rides for the company, so that they can buy shares at the I.P.O. price. Drivers with 10,000 rides will receive $1,000, which at the $72 price would allow them to buy 13 shares before taxes. Drivers who have finished 20,000 rides will receive $10,000.Only full-time drivers who have been with the platform for several years are likely to make the cut, said Harry Campbell, an Uber and Lyft driver who runs the driver blog and resource site The Rideshare Guy.“It was the right thing to do,” he said of Lyft’s cash bonuses for drivers. “If you gave 10,000 rides for Lyft, you actually were a big part of helping build this company.” He added that the I.P.O. was “kind of exciting to be part of” for drivers.Unlike Lyft’s employees and early investors, who are restricted by a lockup period from selling their shares, drivers will be able to sell any Lyft stock purchased through the cash bonus program as soon as the company begins trading on the public market, according to an email sent to qualifying drivers and reviewed by The New York Times.But the cash bonuses ultimately did not satisfy many drivers, who work as freelancers for Lyft and Uber and do not receive full-time employee benefits. This week, hundreds of them protested in San Francisco and Los Angeles against lower pay rates.“If political will starts to shift against Uber and Lyft, that’s a scary proposition,” Mr. Campbell said.The initial public offerings of Lyft and Pinterest will give investors the chance to buy into young, fast-growing companies led by founders with ambitious visions.But to get a piece of that action, investors will have to give up something big: an equal say in how the companies are run.Lyft, a ride-share company, and Pinterest, a social media network, will deprive their new shareholders of full voting rights when they go public in the coming days and weeks. Both companies plan to issue shares to a small number of insiders that have far more voting power than the shares everyone else will own.The use of two classes of shares has become increasingly popular among Silicon Valley start-ups going public. But such share structures have also prompted a backlash. Big investors, corporate-governance experts and even some tech executives warn that the issuance of super-voting shares undermines the system of accountability that has long been a pillar of public stock markets.Still, the Lyft and Pinterest offerings show that the desire to retain control after going public remains strong.Who gets what?Both Pinterest and Lyft are issuing two classes of stock, one that gives its holders 20 votes each and another, owned by outside investors, that will have one vote each.In Lyft’s case, the two founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will control 49 percent of the company’s voting power, while holding just under 5 percent of the overall shares. Pinterest has not yet disclosed numbers needed to do a similar breakdown. Google opted for a dual-class structure as it went public in 2004, when it was fairly unusual for tech companies to do so. Facebook issued shares that gave control to its founders in its 2012 I.P.O. Snap, a social media company, sold shares to the public in 2017 with no voting rights, which prompted an outcry. But that hasn’t slowed their adoption. Last year, nearly two-thirds of technology companies going public had more than one class of shares, compared with a quarter five years earlier, according to data from Dealogic.And it’s not just technology companies that have embraced maintaining control. Levi Strauss, which went public last week, has shares that put most of the voting power in the hands of its founder’s descendants. And some media companies, The New York Times Company included, have special shares that give control to their holders.Uber may buck this trend, though. The ride-sharing company is preparing to make its public market debut this year and is expected to do so with one class of stock.Why should investors be wary of unequal voting rights?As owners of a company, shareholders expect to have some sway over management. Full voting rights give them a greater voice in who’s on the board and how much executives get paid, and on big decisions, like whether to sell the company. Diminishing public holders’ voting rights can give insiders too much power and insulate executives who make poor decisions. Strong boards, as well as the looming threat of activist investors, do a lot to assure top executives are responsive, says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online real estate brokerage. “The feeling that I serve at the pleasure of the board, that it is a privilege to work at Redfin, is fundamental to this company and the best of business culture,” he said.It’s hard to say definitively whether companies with unequal voting rights perform better or worse over time. Google has grown strongly over the years, but so have Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, which don’t give special control to insiders. Viacom’s stock has done poorly while CBS’s has done quite well; Sumner M. Redstone, with the help of his daughter, Shari Redstone, controls both companies through voting shares. Much also depends on the type of control a company grants. Robert J. Jackson Jr., a commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission, has cited analysis showing that companies that give control to insiders in perpetuity ended up with lower valuations on the stock market than those that planned to get rid of unequal voting rights after a certain period.The question of control may become crucial when a company gets into trouble. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, faltered in his response to abuse of the company’s network and data. Shareholder advisory groups last year pressed for changes that they said would improve governance, including setting up a special risk committee on the board, but they did not get the necessary votes.  Mr. Zuckerberg enjoys the protection of powerful voting shares. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment.There can be advantages to having controlling shares.Perhaps the biggest is that they can shield executives from pressures to bolster a company’s performance in the near term and give them more freedom to make investments that take time to pay off. Google has made that argument.Of course, it is possible for companies that don’t issue special controlling shares to shrug off the “short-termism” of the stock market. Amazon has plowed significant sums into new businesses for years and is among the most valuable companies in the world. But companies at a vulnerable stage in their development may benefit from giving control to their leaders as they pursue their visions for their companies. Lyft, for instance, is planning big investments in self-driving vehicle technology, and the company’s stock may suffer if they don’t immediately bear fruit. And though Facebook’s controlling shares may have helped set the stage for its stumbles, the arrangement may also have helped the company respond. Since the scandals, Facebook has increased its spending to safeguard its network. Wall Street analysts have at times questioned the need for such costs, but Mr. Zuckerberg can mostly ignore them because of the voting power in his hands.There is a middle road.Some efforts to address the use of high-voting shares have focused on how long these classes of shares exist. Critics oppose arrangements that allow the holders to keep control until they die, or those that allow the shares to be passed on to descendants. These create what Mr. Jackson, the S.E.C. commissioner, has called “corporate royalty.”Instead of granting long-term or perpetual control, a few companies have adopted structures that convert controlling shares into ordinary shares after a certain number of years. But this approach has failed to gain traction. In the three years through 2018, only 29 percent of the I.P.O.s with special controlling shares had a provision that allow their superior voting power to expire after a certain period, according to a New York Times analysis of data provided by the Council of Institutional Investors, a group that has criticized unequal voting rights.Lyft’s controlling shares won’t lose any of their power over time, but the company has attempted to bolster its corporate governance by having an independent chairman. Other companies have taken this step, including Snap, but it hasn’t been enough to satisfy critics of unequal share classes. “A lot of companies think an independent chair is a good idea, but is that person going to last forever?” Mr. Jackson said, “Is there anything to stop them from removing the independent chair?”Pinterest has a seven-year time limit, but it only kicks in if the holders of the high-voting shares own less than half the shares they had just before I.P.O. “I would not count that as a true, time-based sunset,” said Andrew Winden, a fellow at Stanford Law School Rock Center for Corporate Governance, referring to phaseout provisions. SAN FRANCISCO — Owning a piece of the gig economy became a reality for millions on Friday when Lyft began trading on the public markets, signaling the start of a stream of stock offerings expected from high-profile technology companies this year.Lyft’s shares rose 8.7 percent in its first day of trading after opening at $87.24, far above the public offering price of $72. By the end of the day, the ride-hailing firm’s market value stood at $26.4 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade. At that level, it was more than 23 times the valuation of the parent company of Hertz, the rental car provider, and bigger than the parent of United Airlines.Lyft’s public market debut formalized the rise of the sharing economy, even though persistent questions remain about the effect of gig-type work on people’s quality of life and their wages. When ride-hailing companies like Lyft and Uber began growing this decade, they hawked their kind of work — where drivers are freelancers who drive only when they want to — as providing flexibility. But with drivers ineligible to receive employee benefits like health care, the businesses have since prompted lawsuits and labor protests.Gig economy companies also have not proved a business fundamental: that they can make money. While Lyft and Uber have been expanding rapidly, they have lost close to or more than $1 billion a year. And the companies are spending heavily on new initiatives like food delivery, electric bikes and self-driving vehicles, making profits a distant prospect.[Unicorns are riding into the public markets, and their elite early investors will be the biggest winners.]Even so, Lyft’s offering means that people will now own shares of the company in their mutual funds and stock portfolios, giving them more of a vested interest in the financial outcomes of gig economy firms. That will be compounded when Uber, the world’s biggest ride-hailing operator, goes public in the next few months in what is expected to be the largest initial public offering of the past five years. Uber will almost certainly become part of index funds, which underlie the retirement portfolios of millions of Americans.“Their business model is completely reliant on an unsettled issue, which is the status of their drivers,” Veena Dubal, an employment and labor law professor at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law, said of ride-hailing companies. “They’ve been trying to shift risk onto workers, and now they are shifting risk onto investors as well.”Those risks sent jitters through some investors on Friday, with Lyft’s shares falling after opening up strongly. The stock dipped to roughly $80 before declining further near the end of trading to finish the day at $78.29.But others turned a blind eye to the steep losses and heavy spending, which bodes well for the herd of other coming tech offerings. Apart from Uber, those set to join the I.P.O. bonanza are Pinterest, the digital pin board; the messaging company Slack; the delivery company Postmates; and the home-fitness company Peloton.Interest in buying Lyft’s stock was so high that demand outstripped supply within the first two days of the company’s road show to pitch prospective investors this month. By the end, the I.P.O. was 20 times oversubscribed, Lyft told investors on Friday.Lyft’s high listing price and performance are a “reflection of the appetite” from investors, said Tom White, a senior vice president at D. A. Davidson, a wealth and asset management firm. “Right now, I think investors generally are focused on growth.”With its initial offering, Lyft leapt ahead of Uber to become the first publicly traded ride-hailing firm. Logan Green and John Zimmer, Lyft’s founders, celebrated the event on Friday in Los Angeles, where pink confetti rained down them as they marked the occasion. The pair had founded Zimride, a long-distance car-pooling service for college students, in 2007. Zimride evolved into Lyft, which initially used the gimmick of fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches to distinguish its service.Mr. Green, 35, who grew up in Santa Monica, and has cited heavy traffic in the area as an inspiration for Lyft, and Mr. Zimmer, 34, used the I.P.O. to announce a program called Lyft City Works. The program will donate $50 million to transportation initiatives in cities where it operates.Mr. Green said he planned to further expand Lyft into other modes of transportation, including public transit.“We want Lyft to be the first app that you open up,” he said. “The biggest investments we’re making today are broadening the portfolio of products that you can access within Lyft.”The offering increased Mr. Green’s and Mr. Zimmer’s wealth, while allowing them to maintain tight control over their company. The pair hold a special class of shares that give them extra voting power, a practice common among tech founders but criticized by investor advocates.During the nearly two-week road show, Lyft pitched itself to institutional investors as a mission-driven company focused on reshaping the transportation industry. It emphasized its do-gooder stance on encouraging car-pooling and reducing the environmental impacts of individual car ownership.Investors’ most frequent question during the road show was what the company would look like in five years, Mr. Zimmer said. “Investors realized that ride-sharing is the tip of the iceberg,” he said.Using independent contractors to provide services has indubitably become the keystone of a generation of tech companies, from ride-hailing apps to food delivery services like DoorDash to hair and makeup services like Glamsquad. Some researchers said contingent work could account for 43 percent of the American work force by next year, though the Department of Labor has reported that the number of workers in gig roles has remained mostly flat since 2005.“I think it’s quite clear that this is part of a larger trend in the economy,” said Sean Aggarwal, Lyft’s chairman. “That makes it an exciting story for the long-term investor. It gives them an opportunity to participate not just in this gig economy transformation but also in this larger trend of transportation as a service.”Mr. White of D. A. Davidson said the good will toward Lyft would eventually evaporate if it ultimately couldn’t make money.“As we get closer to 2020, there will be an expectation that we see them narrow the losses,” he said.The latest generation of Silicon Valley start-ups is now sprinting to the public markets, raising hopes among large and small investors eager to invest in these high-profile, fast-growing firms. But the class of 2019 is far different from its predecessors. These companies, including gig economy darlings like Uber and Lyft, are generally older and larger, powered for years by billions of dollars of private money that has reshaped the start-up world.The additional maturity of the companies may curb wild swings — both big gains and big losses — for new investors. But it could also mean that the companies’ fastest phases of growth are behind them. As a result, there is an increased risk that in this wave of tech I.P.O.s, an elite group of investors, like sovereign wealth funds and venture capitalists, will grab a larger share of the winnings compared with new investors.“Individual investors are going to get in too late,” said Jason DeSena Trennert, managing partner at Strategas Research Partners, a markets and economic analysis firm. “They’re going to be the last investors in, and that’s the concern.”[Lyft’s shares soared on Friday when it began trading on public markets.]The change reflects a large-scale shift in the way that American entrepreneurs raise money to build their companies. Instead of quickly turning to the public markets and the scrutiny that comes with that, as Amazon and Google did, they are building huge businesses over the course of many years on the back of private money, and with fewer demands for financial disclosures.Uber, the giant ride-hailing company, has raised more than $20 billion over the last decade. Lyft, its smaller rival, which priced its I.P.O. late Thursday at $72 a share and is expected to start trading on the Nasdaq Friday, raised $4.9 billion over seven years.Many start-ups in earlier waves — back to the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, when Amazon was listed on the Nasdaq — went public just a few years after their founding. Some, like Pets.com, had tiny amounts of revenue, and now exist only in Silicon Valley lore. A combination of policy changes and vast new riches in the tech industry has been changing the equation for start-ups for more than a decade. Mutual funds and hedge funds — the typical investors in a start-up’s I.P.O. — began buying stakes in large private companies as a way to build up larger stakes before the new businesses went public. Other big investors joined in, including large sovereign wealth funds and the outsize SoftBank Vision Fund, creating an even hotter market. Venture capital investments into United States-based companies grew to $99.5 billion in 2018, the highest level since 2000, according to CB Insights, a company that tracks start-ups.Those investments have driven valuations of start-ups to unusual heights. There are now at least 333 so-called unicorns, companies valued at $1 billion or more, according to CB Insights. In 2014 there were around 80.Lyft has a private valuation of more than $11 billion. So does Pinterest, another company in the process of going public. That is roughly the market value that public investors put on the retailer Kohl’s and the online trading firm E-Trade Financial. Uber, the largest of the private companies expected to head for the stock market this year, has a private-market valuation of more than $70 billion. In public markets, that’s roughly the same size as corporate giants such as Goldman Sachs and CVS Health. Matt Murphy, a partner at Menlo Ventures, a leading venture capital firm, said the higher valuations and larger investments correlate with bigger opportunities created by smartphones and cloud computing. “The magnitude of the audiences that can be reached and the monetization per user has grown,” he said. “Their growth potential is much higher than was previously anticipated.”Some industry groups and investors who urge fewer regulations say the emphasis on the private markets is an outgrowth of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the federal law passed in 2002 that tightened accounting rules for public companies after the accounting scandals of the early 2000s. Besides raising disclosure requirements and other changes, the law required top executives to attest to the accuracy of corporate financial statements. Some say those higher costs to guarantee compliance can dissuade smaller companies from going public. Private companies, by comparison, can operate with far less disclosure. They are under no obligation to file quarterly earnings updates or audited annual financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nor are they required to broadly distribute updates on business developments to the public. Others say the decline in public offerings began before Sarbanes-Oxley passed. They attribute the change to a wave of federal deregulation, which made it easier to raise money and sell companies privately. Lighter antitrust enforcement set off a boom in mergers and acquisitions, allowing smaller firms to sell to bigger companies instead of going public. At the same time, new laws made it easier for private companies to sell securities to qualified investors around the country, bolstering funding from private equity and venture capital.Whatever the driver, the net result has been a clear downturn in the number of public companies in the United States. The number of listed companies has declined by 52 percent since 1997, to a bit more than 3,600 in 2016, according to a working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research published last year. This long-term shrinkage in publicly available shares is a reason that some analysts expect Uber, Lyft and other prominent start-ups to receive a warm response from the institutional investors who typically buy freshly issued shares, even if the potential upside could be smaller. “There’s an element, I think, of pent-up demand here,” said David Ethridge, who advises on public offerings at the consulting firm PwC. “I think people will have a feeling of, I don’t really want to miss out.”Investors have some reason to be skeptical of paying top dollar for newly minted public companies, however. Over the last two years, the value of companies that completed public offerings actually fell by an average of 8 percent, according to a recent research report from Goldman Sachs analysts. Over the same period, the S&P 500 stock index was up about 12 percent. (Reuters) - United Arab Emirates-based payments and foreign exchange company Finablr said on Tuesday it expects to register to launch an initial public offering in London, in a deal that could raise proceeds of $200 million (£152.7 million).Finablr, the holding company for businesses including UAE Exchange, Travelex Holdings and Xpress Money, said any offer it made would consist of new shares and existing shares to be sold by some of its investors.The company intends to use the net proceeds to finance expansion plans and reduce net debt, it said. (Reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain in Bengaluru; editing by Patrick Graham)ZURICH — Swiss eyecare company Alcon made its debut on the SIX Swiss Exchange on Tuesday with a market capitalisation of more than $25 billion after a shareholder spin-off from drugmaker Novartis, the Alpine nation's biggest stock deal in a decade.Alcon shares traded at 57.80 Swiss francs at 0800 GMT after opening at 55 Swiss francs per share, reaching a market cap of some 28 billion Swiss francs (21.46 billion pounds). Novartis shares, which closed on Tuesday at 95 francs, fell to 85.50 francs. Investors got one Alcon share for each five Novartis shares they held. Alcon, a $7.1 billion-per-year group which began as a Fort Worth, Texas, pharmacy in 1945, suffered flagging sales and profit before Novartis swapped out management in 2016 to help arrest the decline. Geneva-based Alcon now aims to strengthen its rank as the biggest ophthalmic surgery device maker and No. 2 maker of contact lenses and solutions behind Johnson & Johnson. "We are poised to achieve sustainable growth and create long-term shareholder value as a standalone company," Alcon Chief Executive David Endicott said. Giving Alcon to shareholders helps cap Novartis's years-long retreat from being a broad healthcare company, as Chief Executive Vas Narasimhan focuses on prescription drugs and specialised, costly treatments like gene therapy. "We continue to reimagine ourselves as a leading medicines company powered by breakthrough medicines, data science and advanced therapy platforms," Narasimhan said in a statement.  (Reporting by John Miller, editing by John Revill and Michael Shields)From Day 1 in the Oval Office, President Trump has shown a unique obsession with the financial markets, tweeting that high stock prices proved he was making America great again. But a new chapter opened in October, when the markets dropped sharply, and Mr. Trump began making critical presidential decisions with an eye to pushing stock prices back up.As soon as the markets turned downward, Mr. Trump softened his hard line on Chinese trade practices, trying to quiet market fears that his tariff threats against Beijing would start a global trade war. Then he started attacking the United States Federal Reserve, saying its interest rate policies were undermining stock prices, and followed with rants about firing the chairman of the Fed, Jerome Powell. And last week, Axios quoted a source who had spoken to Mr. Trump as saying that the president had delayed his threat to close the Mexico border out of concern over how the markets would react.For Mr. Trump to base serious decisions about trade, monetary policy and immigration on market mood swings ensures that the zany uncertainty of his tenure will continue to reach new heights.Mr. Trump’s sudden moderation on China was particularly striking because, in an otherwise mercurial career, he had remained consistent on trade. Going back to the 1980s, Mr. Trump has been accusing Asian competitors in particular of using unfair trade deals to steal America’s lunch.Moreover, Mr. Trump has been drawing broad support for his hard line on trade with China, even among his critics in Congress and in Europe. Many of them agreed that China was using state power to dominate the global information technology industry, exclude American companies from its domestic market and steal intellectual property. They were openly rooting for Mr. Trump to win on this issue, and to cut a tough deal.Yet when the markets fell on fear of a United States-China trade war, Mr. Trump began to retreat. After taking office, his tweets on China attacked it for militarism, currency manipulation and unfair trade practices right up until the markets dropped in October. Mr. Trump’s first conciliatory tweet came on Nov. 1, describing a pleasant chat about trade with President Xi Jinping, and he has been talking up their “incredible relationship” and progress in trade talks since.By last month, amid reports that Trump advisers were calculating how big of a “stock market pop” they could expect from a trade deal, Washington insiders from both parties were worrying aloud that the president might accept any deal China would sign.Mr. Trump, meanwhile, was executing a similar about-face on the Fed. As a candidate, he had attacked the central bank for keeping rates so low and inflating “a big fat ugly bubble” in the markets. Once he took office, Mr. Trump stopped tweeting attacks on the Fed, until November, when he began to blame the central bank for dampening market spirits with high interest rates. In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has not only fulminated about replacing Mr. Powell, he has also started considering market-friendly loyalists for seats on the Fed board of governors.Mr. Trump’s most recent market-driven U-turn appears to have come on immigration, another subject near and dear to him. So far, the stock markets have not reacted negatively to his aggressive efforts to secure funding for a border wall, including the government shutdown and the declaration of a national emergency. Nonetheless, when Mr. Trump backed off on his threat to close the southern border, the Axios source explained the president’s decision this way: “It’s the markets. Closing the border, the markets would plummet.”No president has shown this kind of deference. Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and both Bushes mentioned the stock markets rarely and cautiously. Bill Clinton counseled against responding to their gyrations. In early 2009, Barack Obama suggested it was a good time to buy battered American stocks and was proved right when the markets hit bottom a week later. But Mr. Obama was criticized for acting as “stock picker in chief” and did not talk about stock prices again as president.Mr. Trump is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high. And recent market rises have rewarded him for it. After Mr. Trump turned conciliatory on China, the Fed announced it was suspending further rate increases, and stocks began climbing back toward record highs.So who’s in charge: Mr. Trump or the markets? One critical test is the United States-China trade talks, which are set to wrap up soon in a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi. A tough agreement would help confirm that markets aren’t completely dictating policy.Even then, Mr. Trump’s willingness to bend policy to please the markets is now clear — and it’s risky. In recent years the stock markets have grown larger than the economy, and they are now big enough to take the economy down with them when they deflate. Policymakers are wary of poking this beast, but feeding it will only make the markets larger and more demanding.Ruchir Sharma, a contributing opinion writer, is chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.(Reuters) - Shares of ride-hailing company Lyft Inc rose as much as 4 percent on Friday, setting the stock for its best day since its market debut last week, after short-seller Citron Research advised investors to hold on to the stock.The number of active Lyft riders has surged fivefold to 18.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, from the first quarter of 2016, and those numbers are set to rise further, Citron said, listing several other reasons to not be short on Lyft.As of Thursday, Lyft's short interest was $937 million, with 13.38 million shares shorted, which makes up about 41.2 percent of its float, according to data from S3 Partners, a financial technology and analytics firm.Citron, which has held a stake in Lyft for the last two years, said it has increased its position in the company in the open market.Describing ride-sharing as a "megatrend", and not just a fad, Citron said Lyft has good prospects, especially since millennials are foregoing car ownership for ride-sharing."This is not a trendy video game or a GoPro camera... this is a way of life that is saving people time and ensuring safety," the note said."The entire rideshare market in the U.S. only accounts for 1 percent of miles traveled today…. we have only just begun," Citron said.But brokerage Seaport Global, which started coverage on Lyft with a "sell" rating on Tuesday, said it was skeptical that consumers will give up car ownership in favor of relying on ride-hailing services.Daiwa Capital Markets also initiated coverage on the company on Thursday, with an 'outperform' rating and a price target of $80. The rating reflects strong revenue growth potential ahead for the company, the brokerage said, but added it expects losses to increase through 2020, and then reach break even by the end of 2022.Lyft's shares fell below their IPO price of $72 on their second day of trading, erasing all debut gains, after market research companies cited lack of a clear path to profitability. The company did not mention when it would turn profitable. It reported a loss of $911 million in 2018, wider than its $688 million loss in 2017, despite revenue doubling in 2018 to $2.16 billion.Daiwa added autonomous robotaxis, currently under development at tech and auto companies, are among the biggest threats to the company. (Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru; Editing by James Emmanuel)(Reuters) - Uber Technologies Inc has decided it will seek to sell around $10 billion worth of stock in its initial public offering, and will make public the registration of the offering on Thursday, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.An IPO of this size would make Uber one of the biggest technology IPOs of all time, and the largest since that of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd in 2014.Uber is seeking a valuation of between $90 billion and $100 billion, influenced by the poor performance of smaller rival Lyft Inc's shares following its IPO late last month, the sources said. Investment bankers previously told Uber it could be worth as much as $120 billion.Uber most recently was valued at $76 billion in the private fundraising market.Most of the shares sold would be issued by the company, while a smaller portion would be owned by Uber investors cashing out, one of the sources said. Uber plans to make its IPO registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission publicly available on Thursday, and will kick of its investor roadshow during the week of April 29, putting it on track to price its IPO and begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange in early May, the sources said. The sources cautioned that the plans are still subject to change and market conditions, and asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential.A representative for Uber declined to comment. Lyft's IPO priced at the top end of its upwardly revised range last month, assigning it a valuation of more than $24 billion in an offering that raised $2.34 billion. But the stock has traded poorly since debuting on the Nasdaq on March 29, as concerns about the startup's path to profitability have become more prominent. The shares ended trading on Tuesday at $67.44, well below their $72 IPO price.In moderating its valuation expectations, Uber is showing a realism that is being increasingly adopted by Silicon Valley unicorns, as stock market investors push back against some of the lofty price tags sought.On Monday, Pinterest Inc set a price range for its IPO that values it below the $12 billion at which the online image-search company sourced its last private fundraising in 2017.Uber operates in more than 70 countries. In addition to ride-hailing, its business includes bike and scooter rentals, freight hauling, food delivery, and an expensive self-driving car division. During the IPO roadshow, Uber's chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, will be tasked with convincing investors that he has successfully changed the company’s culture and business practices after a series of embarrassing scandals over the last two years.Those have included sexual harassment allegations, a massive data breach that was concealed from regulators, use of illicit software to evade authorities and allegations of bribery overseas.Uber last year had revenue of $11.3 billion, while gross bookings from rides was $50 billion. But the company lost $3.3 billion, excluding gains from the sale of its overseas business units in Russia and Southeast Asia. (Reporting by Joshua Franklin and Carl O'Donnell in New York; Additional reporting by Liana B. Baker in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)(Reuters) - Uber Technologies Inc has decided it will seek to sell around $10 billion worth of stock in its initial public offering, and will make public the registration of the offering on Thursday, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.An IPO of this size would make Uber one of the biggest technology IPOs of all time, and the largest since that of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd in 2014.Uber is seeking a valuation of between $90 billion and $100 billion, influenced by the poor performance of smaller rival Lyft Inc's shares following its IPO late last month, the sources said. Investment bankers previously told Uber it could be worth as much as $120 billion.Uber most recently was valued at $76 billion in the private fundraising market.Most of the shares sold would be issued by the company, while a smaller portion would be owned by Uber investors cashing out, one of the sources said. Uber plans to make its IPO registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission publicly available on Thursday, and will kick of its investor roadshow during the week of April 29, putting it on track to price its IPO and begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange in early May, the sources said. The sources cautioned that the plans are still subject to change and market conditions, and asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential.A representative for Uber declined to comment. Lyft's IPO priced at the top end of its upwardly revised range last month, assigning it a valuation of more than $24 billion in an offering that raised $2.34 billion. But the stock has traded poorly since debuting on the Nasdaq on March 29, as concerns about the startup's path to profitability have become more prominent. The shares ended trading on Tuesday at $67.44, well below their $72 IPO price.In moderating its valuation expectations, Uber is showing a realism that is being increasingly adopted by Silicon Valley unicorns, as stock market investors push back against some of the lofty price tags sought.On Monday, Pinterest Inc set a price range for its IPO that values it below the $12 billion at which the online image-search company sourced its last private fundraising in 2017.Uber operates in more than 70 countries. In addition to ride-hailing, its business includes bike and scooter rentals, freight hauling, food delivery, and an expensive self-driving car division. During the IPO roadshow, Uber's chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, will be tasked with convincing investors that he has successfully changed the company’s culture and business practices after a series of embarrassing scandals over the last two years.Those have included sexual harassment allegations, a massive data breach that was concealed from regulators, use of illicit software to evade authorities and allegations of bribery overseas.Uber last year had revenue of $11.3 billion, while gross bookings from rides was $50 billion. But the company lost $3.3 billion, excluding gains from the sale of its overseas business units in Russia and Southeast Asia. (Reporting by Joshua Franklin and Carl O'Donnell in New York; Additional reporting by Liana B. Baker in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)LONDON — The European Union's markets watchdog began its third stress test of 16 clearing houses on Wednesday, saying it was adding a new requirement and that three British clearers won't take part if there is a no-deal Brexit.Clearing houses stand between the two sides of a stock, bond and derivatives trade, ensuring its safe and swift completion even if one side goes bust.The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) said the new component will assess the impact of liquidation costs or ability of a clearing house member to sell large positions to raise funds in stressed markets.Clearing houses have grown since the financial crisis a decade ago, after regulators ruled that swathes of the derivatives market must be cleared to increase transparency and safety.But that raised concern that some clearing houses were now too big, meaning their failure would bring down the financial system. Consequently, regulators introduced "stress tests" to see whether they could cope with theoretical shocks without taxpayer handouts."ESMA’s stress tests continue to evolve, we have built on the knowledge acquired in the first two exercises and have added a new component on concentration risk to ensure the exercise is fit for purpose," ESMA chair Steven Maijoor said in a statement.ESMA said that if Britain leaves the European Union without a deal, the three UK clearing houses currently included in the test would not take part.London-based LCH, part of the London Stock Exchange Group, is one of the world's biggest clearing houses, and clears most euro-denominated interest rate swaps. LCH has a subsidiary in Paris, which is also being tested.The other two UK clearers are ICE Clear Europe and LME Clear.Clearing houses must already show regulators they could survive their two biggest members going bust, but EU policymakers worry the sector is not regulated enough.Results of the test will be published in the second quarter of 2020. (Reporting by Huw Jones; editing by Louise Heavens, Larry King)SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft’s debut on the stock market is off to a bumpy start.The ride-hailing company went public in a blaze of glory on Friday, as its stock jumped 8.7 percent from its initial public offering price of $72 a share. On Monday, in its second day of trading, Lyft’s stock plunged nearly 12 percent to below $72, closing the day at $69.01.The rapid decline raises questions about investors’ appetite for fast-growing but unprofitable tech companies. While Lyft has been expanding and gaining new revenue, it lost nearly $1 billion last year. Ride-hailing companies often subsidize the cost of rides and pay incentives to drivers, which is expensive. And Lyft is also spending heavily on initiatives including electric bikes and self-driving technology.Other tech companies that went public while recording large losses, such as Snap, Twitter and Groupon, also eventually fell below their offering prices.“Everyone is taken up with the idea of the ride-hailing business; it’s exciting and high-growth,” said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, which manages an I.P.O.-focused exchange-traded fund that will include Lyft later this week. “But it’s hard to figure out their valuation.”Lyft declined to comment.[Not everyone who invested in Lyft is reaping the spoils.]Lyft’s performance could sway other high-profile tech companies that are planning to go public.Uber, the world’s biggest ride-hailing company, is planning to go public in the next few months; it is also deeply unprofitable. Others stampeding toward the public market include Pinterest, the digital pin board; Slack, the messaging company; and Peloton, the home-fitness company.“The ones following in the wake of Lyft will be priced more reasonably,” Ms. Smith said.Even if Lyft eventually makes money, its margins might be low, she cautioned. Lyft is constantly dealing with new competitors, which means that it may have to continue subsidizing its drivers and cutting the prices that it charges passengers. That makes profits a faraway prospect.The volatility in Lyft’s stock was not unexpected, said Tom White, a senior vice president at the wealth management firm D. A. Davidson. “Nothing has changed on the fundamental outlook for the business in the last few days,” he said.LAS VEGAS — The show must go on. That sentiment couldn’t have been stronger this week at CES, the largest consumer electronics convention in the country. The conference, which brought more than 180,000 people to Las Vegas, was a reminder of what the tech industry is best at: being optimistic about itself.Who cares about the abysmal stock market and growing fears that we are sliding into a recession? Check out these virtual-reality headsets, self-driving cars and big-screen TVs.Filippo Yacob, a tech entrepreneur who attended, was blasé about the state of the market. “The speed of progress and innovation happens at such a rapid pace that it’s not like it pulses with the stock market,” said Mr. Yacob, whose company Primo Toys makes tech products for children. “It’s more like a bullet train.”This year’s event was also slightly larger than the last, with more than 4,500 exhibitors sprawled across 2.7 million square feet. The conference offered a peek at the year’s hottest tech trends, including artificially intelligent virtual assistants, next-generation wireless networks and connected cars.And companies unveiled thousands of products. Google and Amazon showed car accessories, alarm clocks and speakers that can be controlled with their virtual assistants by speaking commands like “Hey, Google, what’s the weather today?” or “Alexa, what’s my sports update?”LG lured attendees into its giant booth with televisions that can be rolled up as if they were yoga mats.Wireless carriers and chip makers highlighted 5G, the next-generation cellular network arriving this year in a small number of cities with data speeds so zippy that devices can download an entire movie in seconds.The most surprising news came when a host of tech companies announced they were working with Apple to bring some of the company’s content and virtual assistant capabilities to their devices.Vizio, the TV maker, said its newer TVs would work with AirPlay, an Apple software feature for streaming video and audio content from an iPhone or Mac to a television screen. People will be able to speak to Siri on their iPhones to play content they had purchased from iTunes on the Vizio TVs. Samsung, Sony and LG announced similar partnerships with Apple.In the past, AirPlay and iTunes videos were mostly tied to Apple-made hardware like the Apple TV set-top box. Their expansion to third parties underlines Apple’s ambition to expand the revenue it generates from its internet content and services. That’s especially important now that sales of Apple’s cash cow, the iPhone, are slowing. This month, the company reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years.The move is also notable because it illustrates an unusual willingness by Apple to open its technology to other companies, including competitors like Samsung.In a statement provided by Samsung, Eddy Cue, Apple’s head of internet software and services, said that with the expansion of iTunes and AirPlay, “iPhone, iPad and Mac users have yet another way to enjoy all their favorite content on the biggest screen in their home.”Front and center at CES was the battle between virtual assistants — namely Amazon’s Alexa and Google’s Assistant. Google erected an enormous outdoor booth to show off the multitude of devices that now work with Assistant, including smart watches, speakers and displays. The company said a billion devices now work with its assistant, up from 400 million last year. Google wants to make the Assistant the focal point of a consumer’s life: in the home, in the car and on mobile devices.“When I walk down the aisle at Home Depot, will all the devices I might buy work with the Assistant?” Nick Fox, a Google executive who oversees Assistant, said of items like smoke detectors and thermostats. “The answer is yes.”Amazon also had a large presence at the show. It filled a large conference room at the Venetian hotel with dozens of products that work with Alexa, including an Audi car, a motorcycle helmet and a stereo system.The battle among virtual assistants is shaping up to be very different from past platform wars between tech companies because consumers will have more choices. Many of the smart gadgets at CES worked with multiple virtual assistants. Aaron Emigh, chief executive of Brilliant, which makes smart home products that work with Alexa, Google Assistant and Siri, said it was critical for virtual assistants to work together, not against one another, because the smart home was already too complex, with products like light switches, thermostats and cameras coming from different brands.“The more technology and the more different vendors that get put in your home, the more important that it all works together,” he said.Car manufacturers like Mercedes-Benz and BMW showed off concepts of autonomous vehicles powered by artificial intelligence and 5G wireless connections. But consumers won’t be able to buy self-driving vehicles from a dealership anytime soon, in part because companies still need much more data on how people drive cars. Smarter cars with features like built-in voice assistants to help people use maps, play music or get a sports update without taking their eyes off the road are available now, however.If the economy does cool off, sales of cutting-edge gadgets will drop. Fast. But that didn’t faze people here. None of the CES attendees I spoke to expressed concern.Matt Strauss, who oversees Comcast’s Xfinity internet and cable service, was especially bullish about the year ahead. He said just about everything announced at CES required an internet connection, so that’s the last thing that people would cut off. “It’s become like oxygen,” he said.Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Happy 2019.Last year was a big one in tech, as the Silicon Valley behemoths that drive large swaths of California’s economy faced mounting scrutiny over the way they handle our personal information and do business with one another.But it felt almost overwhelming trying to get a handle on everything that came to light. So I asked Pui-Wing Tam, our Tech editor, to put the revelations into some context.Jill Cowan: What was the most surprising thing your team uncovered this year and why?Pui-Wing Tam: So much happened in tech in 2018 that it’s hard to know where to begin. But the story line that emerged that I found the most surprising was the increasing activism of tech workers.Silicon Valley tech employees have historically seemed a docile lot, lured to the corporate campuses in Mountain View, Calif., San Jose and farther north in San Francisco by promises of fat compensation and a comfortable life.But in 2018, many engineers and other workers at companies like Google and Facebook began more publicly voicing their thoughts on a range of issues, including whether artificial intelligence should be used by the Pentagon, how to better treat sexual harassment victims, and how to embrace more diversity of thought in the workplace. They showed conscience, a heart, and a healthy amount of internal debate.What was the most disconcerting thing your team found this year?It was a year full of holy moly headlines about Facebook improperly handling our user data, Google working on a censored self engine for China, Amazon setting off surveillance alarm bells by selling facial recognition tech to the police, and domestic abusers using smart home technology to harass their victims. Most creepy of all was this column about Brian X. Chen’s experience downloading all the information that Facebook had ever collected on him.So by the end of the year, one of the most disconcerting things was wondering if tech even does any good any more.Fortunately, Farhad Manjoo reminded us of the personal power of how tech can help us store and surface our memories with a column about Google Photos. And Kevin Roose handed out a few awards for good tech.What story lines will be the most important in the year ahead?We’ll still be closely following how far this tech backlash goes. And in San Francisco, we’re looking for a big bump in conspicuous spending if a bunch of tech start-ups — including Uber, Lyft, Slack, Pinterest and others — manage to make their debut on the stock market, enriching their founders, employees, investors and the Tesla car dealer down the road.California Online(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• A blue wave swept Orange County in the midterms. But is that turnout sustainable or has it been a reaction to President Trump? [The New York Times]• Sheriffs in California counties where suspected killers were in the country illegally have angrily decried the state’s so-called sanctuary law. But in Stanislaus and Tulare Counties, sheriffs have been careful to distinguish criminals from large populations of undocumented farm workers who haven’t been accused of crimes. [The Los Angeles Times]• The Democratic senators Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker are taking steps to prepare for 2020 presidential campaigns, hoping to capitalize on a more diverse vision of the future for the party. (Ms. Warren has already entered the race.) [The New York Times]• Sam Liccardo, mayor of San Jose and an avid cyclist, was hospitalized after being hit by an S.U.V. on Tuesday afternoon. By evening, he was feeling well enough to joke in a statement: “Fortunately, the doctors state that all defects to the head were pre-existing conditions.” The driver was not arrested. [The Mercury News]• Though live music ruled the Rose Parade, the annual show in Pasadena ended in confusion after a float caught fire and a tow truck that was called to take it away broke. No one was injured, fortunately. [The San Gabriel Valley Tribune]• The terminally ill Yemeni toddler whose mother fought for a visa waiver to see him in California has died. [The New York Times]• Overflows of human waste and garbage have forced some national parks, including Yosemite, to close some facilities during the government shutdown. Here’s a list. [National Parks Traveler]• Tesla is scrambling to sell cars before a tax break for buyers ends. [The New York Times]• Cities like Portland, Oakland and Sacramento are increasingly worried about becoming San Francisco. San Francisco is worried about becoming Manhattan. But maybe everyone should be trying to become Minneapolis. [The New York Times]And Finally …A writer for Vulture recently took Hollywood to task for routinely screwing up California geography. The latest culprit, wrote Jordan Crucchiola, is the new Transformers movie, “Bumblebee,” which takes place in a fictional town in the Bay Area that has impossible views of both the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge and the ocean.Another offender was the apparently time-bending road trips up and down the state in the second season of “True Detective.”While I, too, have shaken my head at loose interpretations of geography in the Golden State, what always really gets to me is when a show or movie that’s supposed to take place somewhere else was obviously shot in California. I love “Gilmore Girls,” but every time I catch a glimpse of the scrubby brown mountains that somehow frame Stars Hollow, the picturesque, fictional Connecticut town, all I can think about is Burbank.Do you have a California-as-told-by-Hollywood pet peeve? Let us know at CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.SAN JOSE, Calif. — Rizi Manzon lives in the heart of Silicon Valley, in a modest-looking neighborhood of garden apartments and one-story houses on small lots. His own home is five minutes from Apple’s headquarters in what is, by some measures, the most expensive housing market in the country. Average rent in Santa Clara County is over $3,500.If Mr. Manzon, a culinary arts teacher at a nearby high school, had to pay market rates for his one-bedroom apartment, housing costs would eat up 75 percent of his $65,000 salary, he estimated.Luckily for him, he pays just $1,450 per month.Mr. Manzon, 38, is getting this bargain only because his employer, the Santa Clara Unified School District, owns his apartment complex and rents to its teachers at below-market rates. It is an uncommon arrangement — employer as landlord — that is starting to catch on elsewhere as school employees say they cannot afford to live comfortably in regions awash in tech dollars.And it is just one of several radical solutions for struggling educators in the nation’s economic boom towns. From San Francisco to Seattle to Denver to Los Angeles, some are spending four hours per day commuting, or have relied on charitable funding for mortgage assistance. While several districts have tried to make it easier for teachers to live where they work, their efforts are not always welcomed by local homeowners, opening up new debates over gentrification and what obligations the expanding tech sector has to the cities that host its offices.The Santa Clara apartments are considered a model by school district officials in San Jose, the large city a few miles southeast. The San Jose Unified School District has its own plan: raze aging school buildings, send their students to new facilities, and turn that land into affordable rental housing for at least 300 teachers and school workers.But in a city that is rolling out the red carpet for Google employees — the City Council recently voted to approve a major land sale to the tech giant — the teacher housing idea has drawn a backlash.Some parents in Almaden Valley, a suburban-style enclave on the outskirts of San Jose, are not eager to see two of their schools, Leland High School and Bret Harte Middle School, relocated about two miles away in order to build affordable rental housing for educators.“They are both very, very high-end schools” with lots of parental involvement, said Greg Braley, a leader of the opposition to the district’s proposal and a resident of the neighborhood. “Honestly, the schools are so good, people pay a premium to live in this area.”Mr. Braley works in finance and sends his own 9-year-old daughter to private school, but said she may attend public school in the future. Rather than disrupting a high-achieving community, he argued, it would make more sense to provide teachers with a housing allowance of some kind — something the district says it cannot afford to do.Hundreds flocked to an October community meeting to vent their frustration with the district’s plan, and over 6,000 people have signed an online petition, started by Mr. Braley, against it. “Low-income housing doesn’t belong in Almaden,” one resident commented on the petition. “This would devalue home prices in the area significantly,” wrote another.The school district, with 30,000 students, is losing one out of every seven teachers each spring. Some high-need students, like those with disabilities, are being taught by long-term substitutes or contractors. Like many other districts across the country with teacher shortages, it has begun recruiting educators from the developing world.Starting salaries for teachers here range between $55,000 and $79,000. That kind of money does not go far in an area where the median home price is over $1 million, and the district cannot easily raise compensation to account for housing costs. Despite being one of the nation’s richest states, California’s  education spending, about $11,000 per student, was slightly below the national average in 2016. Land is the most valuable asset the district has.District-owned housing would have interested Jesse Escobar, 33, an academic counselor at a middle school in San Jose. He and his girlfriend, Shana Riehart, a high school teacher, were priced out of town and moved 25 miles away to Hayward, Calif. Ms. Riehart quit her job to take a position closer to their new home. Traffic means Mr. Escobar’s commute sometimes takes an hour and 45 minutes each way. He said it had been hurtful to hear parents oppose the housing plan for educators.“Instead of saying teachers, if you had said engineers from Google or doctors from Kaiser, would the tone have been different?” Mr. Escobar asked. “Families trust us with their kids from 8 to 3 every day. I don’t know why it wouldn’t be the case that they would trust us in their communities.”Supporters of the housing plan have a long fight ahead. On Election Day, a ballot initiative to approve a city bond that could have helped pay for the proposal fell just short of passing. The plan now needs the approval of the district board of education, and eventually, a property tax assessment would have to pass at the ballot box. It could be a yearslong process, and opponents warn it could cost hundreds of millions of dollars.Stephen McMahon, the district’s deputy superintendent, blamed much of the neighborhood opposition on the stigma against affordable housing.Standing outside of Leland High School, one of the campuses that could be torn down in the proposal, Mr. McMahon said, “They’re closing their eyes and seeing a 10-story apartment complex with people smoking pot on the doorsteps. That’s not at all what we discussed doing out here.”Mr. McMahon said that each of the proposed housing sites would match existing housing stock: high-rise apartments downtown; single-family houses in Almaden Valley. He acknowledged that the school district lacked expertise in real estate, but said partner organizations would be brought on to help.“This isn’t the work we want to do,” Mr. McMahon said. “We have to do the housing thing because not being able to get employees compromises everything we want to do with our instruction and learning.”Other school districts, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, and some in Colorado and North Carolina are trying similar solutions. In Santa Clara, the district-owned apartment where Mr. Manzon lives has a long waiting list of teachers. But even that is not a full solution.Mr. Manzon, a former chef, will have to leave his home in three years, because each resident is allowed to stay in the district apartments only seven years. He is considering leaving teaching — he has received higher-paying offers to work as an executive chef — or moving to Nevada, where much of his family has relocated.There, “my brother was able to purchase a home on a Honda mechanic’s salary,” he said.Teachers who can come up with at least half of a down payment can turn to Landed, a start-up that helps educators buy homes.Holly Gonzalez, 34, a kindergarten teacher in East San Jose, and her husband, Daniel, a school district I.T. specialist, were able to buy a three-bedroom apartment for $610,000 this summer with help from their parents and from Landed. When they sell the home, they will owe Landed 25 percent of any gain in its value. The company is financed partly by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mark Zuckerberg’s charitable arm.Ms. Gonzalez, who has two sons, said that she and her husband were grateful, but that they had given up a lot, like a backyard. “To be willing to pay what we paid for this? You have to be desperate,” she said.They remain anxious about their economic future, especially since San Jose’s land sale to Google, which the City Council approved in December over the shouts of anti-gentrification activists, and is expected to bring in 20,000 mostly high-income tech jobs.Gentrification, Ms. Gonzalez said, could push out even more low-income families in her district, and declining school enrollment could mean layoffs for teachers.Supporters of the Google deal, like Mayor Sam Liccardo of San Jose, say the company will help finance affordable housing. As part of the agreement, any new apartment buildings constructed near the campus will set aside a quarter of the units as affordable.Mr. Liccardo said it was unfortunate that anxiety about closing schools had gotten mixed up with the debate over cost of living in the city. But he projected that within a few years, some of the same parents who opposed San Jose Unified’s plan for teachers would grasp the importance of affordable housing.“When people see their own children can no longer afford to live in the community” as young adults, he said, “it will change.”Each week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m David Streitfeld, reporting from a very quiet week in Silicon Valley. The venture capitalists were at their vacation homes or exotic resorts, dreaming of riches to come. Entrepreneurs also must have taken time off, because I made it to San Jose in less than two hours, a personal record. There wasn’t even a new data privacy scandal to occupy the pundits.Amazon, however, never lets up. Chances are, something under your family Christmas tree or at your Hanukkah or Kwanzaa celebration was from the retailer. Perhaps everything was. Amazon’s 210th and final press release of the year summarized the company’s holiday season: best ever. If history is any guide, more than half those sales were made by third parties — shops big and small that are in essence renting a stall in the Amazon bazaar.With millions of marketplace sellers battling for a piece of the lucrative Amazon action, competition is fierce. Exactly how tough I didn’t realize until I read a piece called “Prime and Punishment: Dirty Dealing in the $175 Billion Amazon Marketplace,” by Josh Dzieza on the tech site the Verge. Almost as an aside, the article mentions that some unscrupulous sellers were taking an established competitor’s product, setting it on fire and then posting photos saying it exploded. Amazon would go nuts and pull the product as a safety hazard, leaving a clear field for the shady new arrival.Another common move, the article says, is to get a competitor’s product reclassified as a sex toy, suppressing it from ordinary search results. This happened to a seller of childproof locks and outlet covers, whose sales dwindled to zero because absolutely no one was searching for “sexual childproof door lock.”At Amazon, the customer reigns supreme, which means sellers who are accused of doing something wrong need to confess to something, anything, even if they are the victim of another seller’s sabotage. It’s so difficult to mount a successful appeal that many merchants hire professional advisers to get them out of Amazon jail.(I asked Amazon how often sellers took the arson route. In a statement, the retailer replied, “There are bad actors who attempt to undermine our store, but they do not reflect the flourishing community of honest entrepreneurs that make up the vast majority of our seller community.”)Amazon also turns up in a new story in Wired, which asks: Whatever happened to the Future Book? That is the writer Craig Mod’s term for the immersive, interactive, highly connected thrill ride that would finally kill off the traditional boring physical book by, oh, 2015.It didn’t happen. “My Kindle Oasis — one of the most svelte, elegant and expensive digital book containers you can buy in 2018 — is about as interactive as a potato,” Mr. Mod writes. One possible reason: Amazon had little competition for the Kindle, so innovation in e-readers ground to a halt.Both the Wired and the Verge stories might seem to be about how Amazon is overextended, can’t be all things to all people and needs to do what it already does better rather than keep expanding into new fields. But they’re really about how Amazon wins even when it loses.Mr. Mod’s point is that while Kindles never killed physical books, there has nevertheless been an explosion of activity around the book. For instance, it is much simpler and much cheaper to publish yourself than it was 20 years ago. There has also been an explosion in recorded books that will only grow as smart speakers in the home become ubiquitous.And who owns the leading home speaker company, the leading recorded books company and the biggest — by far — physical and digital bookstore? You guessed it.As for the Amazon Marketplace sellers who are undermined by bad guys, Amazon has an answer: protection, for a price.“When sellers get in trouble for customer complaints or attacks from counterfeiters,” Mr. Dzieza writes, “the solution is often to more fully meld with Amazon — to enroll in its fulfillment program, to purchase Amazon’s labels to make sure product isn’t being diverted or even make their brand exclusive to Amazon, which brings special protections.”A wrinkle about the third-party sellers that the Verge doesn’t tackle is the way Amazon makes them sign what is called a most-favored-nation or M.F.N. clause, which stipulates they cannot sell on another site cheaper than they sell on Amazon. British and German regulators investigated the retailer’s use of these clauses a few years ago, with the result that Amazon dropped the practice in Europe. But they’re still in use in the United States.In May, two law professors detailed the case against the M.F.N. restrictions as harmful to consumers in a Yale Law Journal article, “Antitrust Enforcement Against Platform MFNs.” A few days before Christmas, Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut picked up on the issue and wrote a four-page letter to the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department saying he was “deeply concerned” that Amazon’s M.F.N. contracts could stifle market competition and artificially inflate prices.For instance, Mr. Blumenthal wrote, a competitor to Amazon might try to gain an edge by charging merchants a smaller commission. If those merchants also sell on Amazon, however, they could not pass along those savings to their customers, because of the M.F.N. clause. That would be bad for consumers while reinforcing Amazon’s dominance. Amazon declined to comment.■ It used to be that only a few cranks criticized Amazon, but that is rapidly shifting. Still, I was surprised at the take-no-prisoners tone of David Heinemeier Hansson, the programmer who writes and tweets as DHH, in an open letter to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, on Medium.“I think you’re currently making bad decisions that you’re going to regret. Maybe even decisions that we as a whole society will come to regret,” DHH wrote. He added that Mr. Bezos still had time to shape his legacy “into something more than the man who killed retail, extracted the greatest loot from its HQ cities, and who expanded the most monopoly holdings the fastest.”DHH wrote his piece in November, but Medium surfaced it in its daily digest just last week. What makes his criticism especially noteworthy is that Mr. Bezos is a shareholder in DHH’s software development company, Basecamp. DHH notes that he and his co-founder have not talked to Mr. Bezos for at least seven years but that “if we get another chance, this would be the most pressing topic.”■ One last new Amazon development, which might be the biggest of all: unionization. Workers at Amazon’s biggest warehouse in Spain began a two-day strike on Thursday. Warehouse employees on Staten Island are calling for unionization, following the lead of colleagues in Minnesota. Here is a good wrap-up from the Guardian. Amazon has successfully stymied unionization efforts since the company began, so this shift is momentous.■ In non-Amazon news, it appears that the answer to the eternal question of whether the world can have too many iPhones is: Quite likely.■ Thanks to Apple’s news, the stock market as I write is again plunging. But there’s a silver lining for tech companies: They are big, and getting bigger, and a recession might only help them against the competition.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________For the past two months Apple’s suppliers — the firms that make the parts inside iPhones — have issued sales warnings that have eroded the companies’ shares.On Thursday, it was Apple’s turn. Late Wednesday it reduced its revenue forecast for its most recent quarter because of a significant slowdown in iPhone sales in China.Apple’s stock fell 10 percent on Thursday, its worst one-day slide in six years. But the warning also rippled across its many suppliers.The chip makers Micron Technology and Advanced Micro Devices fell 5 percent and 9 percent. Qorvo, a maker of radio frequency chips, and Cirrus Logic, which supplies audio chips for the iPhone, dropped 9 percent.Lumentum, which supplies optical components for the iPhone, slid 8 percent. AMS, a maker of light sensors for smartphones, tumbled more than 20 percent.Since the iPhone was introduced in 2007, the market for mobile phones has become saturated. Even before Apple’s warning — its first in 16 years — investors had started to grow worried about the company’s ability to sell more phones.That’s partly because Qorvo, Cirrus Logic, Lumentum and AMS had all already cut their revenue forecasts for the most recent quarter late last year. Though none of the companies mentioned Apple, the tech giant is the largest customer for each.Those announcements weighed heavily on Apple’s stock. Over a three-day period in mid-November, Apple’s stock fell 9 percent after the warnings of Qorvo, Lumentum and AMS.SAN FRANCISCO — Vini Letteri, a managing director at KKR who invests in tech companies, had a slow 2018.Mr. Letteri, a venture capitalist who manages a $714 million fund, tried to put some of that money into 12 tech start-ups last year — but failed when they demanded too rich a price. In some cases, he said, his offers to invest were outbid by as much as 40 percent. The only investment he led in 2018 was a $360 million deal in OutSystems, a software company in Atlanta.So here’s what Mr. Letteri is not-so-secretly hoping for in 2019: a downturn in the private start-up market.“When the market turns, we’re prepared to be more aggressive,” he said. He added that he had sketched out a “downturn list” of 150 targets — including financial tech, cybersecurity, and consumer internet companies — in case they become cheaper.Mr. Letteri is one of a growing number of venture capitalists rooting for a market dip to calm the overheated start-up scene. For the past few years, Silicon Valley tech start-ups have been awash in a stream of cash that has allowed them to expand quickly and sell or go public at high valuations. Yet that drove up the costs of deal making for venture capitalists, who often prefer to invest in young companies at lower prices in the hopes of making a bigger return later.Now some of these investors may get their wish for a market decline. Stocks tumbled late last year, led by tech giants such as Facebook and Apple, amid fears of slowing economic growth and a trade war with China. And so far this year, the stock market has swung wildly, whipsawed by confusing signals including Apple’s disappointing iPhone sales in China and American employers adding more jobs than expected last month.While it takes time for choppiness in the stock market to ripple out into the start-up market, many venture investors are already preparing for a downturn. Some are setting aside money to pounce on investments and are preparing to write bigger checks with the expectation that new investors who flooded in in recent years will flee. And they are keeping closer tabs on companies that were too expensive to invest in last year.“We definitely want to take advantage of a market downturn,” said Sandy Miller, a venture capitalist at IVP who projects that start-up valuations will fall by 10 percent to 40 percent this year. He said his Silicon Valley venture firm has set aside “meaningful reserves” to do more deals and to put more money into companies it has already invested in, though he declined to specify an amount.Silicon Valley investors have long complained that start-up valuations have gotten too expensive, given that the start-up ecosystem has been on a bull run since at least 2015. That has minted an unprecedented number of “unicorn” start-ups, which are valued at more than $1 billion, including now-giant companies such as Uber and Airbnb.But the rising valuations have only continued to climb in the last year. In 2018, the median company valuation for one category of mature start-ups more than doubled to $420 million, up from $183 million in 2017, according to Carta, a provider of valuation software and services. And in a 2017 National Bureau of Economic Research study of 135 unicorn start-ups, researchers concluded the companies were overvalued by an average of 50 percent.“There’s too much heat around good, not necessarily great, companies” that are older, said Mamoon Hamid, a partner at the venture firm Kleiner Perkins. Even one “good, not great” company he recently met with had 13 investment offers, he said. The upshot: Kleiner did not invest.Greg Sands, a managing partner at Costanoa Ventures, said his venture firm walked away from three investments in 2018 where the price was 30 percent higher than he was willing to pay, an increase from past years. He also screened out numerous companies that were asking for more money than seemed reasonable — yet some of those companies then went on to raise triple that amount from other investors.“What’s happening right now isn’t sustainable and it won’t go on forever. It can’t,” he said. Costanoa raised a $75 million “opportunity fund,”, which Mr. Sands said would give it the ability to do more deals when the market cools down.Many other venture capital firms are also in a position to become more aggressive in case of a market downturn. Venture funds raised $30.2 billion in the first three quarters of last year, on track to surpass 2017’s total of $35.3 billion, according to PitchBook, a data provider.Start-up founders also appear to be preparing for a potential shift in fortunes. In a survey conducted late last year by First Round Capital, a venture capital firm, just under half of 529 entrepreneurs said they expected fund-raising to become more difficult in 2019. A third said they believed the tech bubble was close to popping, a 10-point increase over 2017.Some start-ups are raising more money to weather the uncertainty, according to Kirsten Green, a managing partner at Forerunner Ventures. Others are creating backup plans to cut costs so their survival won’t depend on new funding.Not all venture capitalists want a downturn, especially if it will throw a wrench into the plans of some of the biggest unicorns — such as Uber, Lyft, Pinterest and Slack — to go public. Many investors are eager to cash out of those companies when they stage an initial public offering.“You always want a better market,” said Micah Rosenbloom, a managing partner at Founder Collective, which was an early investor in Uber. “In a crisis, everything gets hard. You’d rather have your companies in good times for everything from hiring to sales.”Still, Mr. Rosenbloom said he also saw opportunity in a downturn. His firm’s two most successful investments — Uber and the Trade Desk, a digital advertising company — were created in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.In previous downturns, the less serious entrepreneurs disappeared, leaving the most committed ones, said David Pakman, a partner at venture firm Venrock. “During those periods, some incredible companies were founded by highly determined entrepreneurs,” he said. “The cream rose to the top.”Good Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Hope springs eternal on Wall Street. But should it?Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYT’s Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Here’s a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors don’t see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trump’s unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasn’t just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies — China, Japan and the European Union — appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. China’s methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The market’s fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing “doom loops.” Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.Asian markets off to a discouraging startNew data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia.• The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years.• The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&P futures also took a hit.• Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Fed’s position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world.• Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that “winter is coming.” In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was “as cold and real as winter to every company.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Behind U.S. strategy in trade talks with ChinaWith talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, “Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are ‘easy to win’ and his recent boast that he is a ‘Tariff Man,’ Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.”After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Big plans for Big TechSilicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYT’s David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Tech’s dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Year’s post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is tech’s chance to make it right.A global turf war over A.I.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technology’s importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYT’s Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of “emerging and foundational technologies” being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Revolving doorSpencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Year’s speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)The speed readDeals• Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ)• Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the world’s largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT)• The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy• The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT)• How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT)• Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech• A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR)• Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN)• Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters)• Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest• Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT)• Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ)• Denmark’s government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT)• Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ)• Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ)• Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT)• Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as China’s central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT)• American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo)• Showtime’s fictional series “Black Monday,” premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo)• Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg)• Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels “snakebitten.” (WSJ)• Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.If anything, MedMen, on Santa Monica Boulevard in West Hollywood, Calif., looks just like an Apple Store. It’s decked out with blond wood tables on which a range of products are artfully displayed — the Puffco Peak portable vaporizer, an electronic Dosist vape pen, the latest issue of Ember magazine and, of course, so much weed delivered in an astonishing variety of ways, from tinctures to gummy bears to cookies to just plain joints. A crowd of customers is attended to by cheerful staff members decked out in jaunty red hoodies and carrying iPads. “Let’s be buds” urges a sign on one table.It certainly looks like it’s going great at this chain of weed dispensaries. But — like a lot of businesses around the newly commercialized marijuana industry in California — MedMen is struggling. The latest quarter of this publicly traded company showed a net loss of $66 million on revenues of $21.5 million. It had lost $79 million the previous quarter.Not enough weed supply and too much expansion are among the reasons given for MedMen’s problems, but the disconnect between the company’s promise and reality made me think hard about some other terrible news this week: Apple’s announcement that it was going to miss its projected revenue by billions of dollars this quarter.[Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]Apple has hung the moon for investors for so long now that the idea of the company struggling sent the entire global stock market into a paroxysm of fear and plunging indexes. It is, to use an old California trope, going to be a real bummer for Silicon Valley.Now stick with me here, because what’s happening across what are considered fast-forward industries like cannabis and tech is worrisome. Where is the next great boom of innovation going to come from, when even the strongest brands and products might not be sure things anymore?Apple is not only a bellwether company in tech but also the most expertly managed one under Tim Cook. He, of course, was preceded as chief executive by Steve Jobs, who had brought the company back from the brink of bankruptcy in 1997. Since then, it has been all uphill, to the point this summer when Apple reached a $1 trillion valuation — the first publicly traded American company to reach that high — with a price of $207.39 a share.Today it’s trading at $142.64, and analysts are predicting it will settle around $135. Yipes. Part of the problem is the meltdown of the economy in China, where Apple products are popular, and the Trump administration’s trade war. But as Ina Fried of Axios noted: “The problems Apple saw in China go far beyond just Apple. But Apple’s iPhone problems extend far beyond China, too.”Indeed. The last big innovation explosion — the proliferation of the smartphone — is clearly ending. There is no question that Apple was the center of that, with its app-centric, photo-forward and feature-laden phone that gave everyone the first platform for what was to create so many products and so much wealth. It was the debut of the iPhone in 2007 that spurred what some in tech call a “Cambrian explosion,” a reference to the era when the first complex animals appeared. There would be no Uber and Lyft without the iPhone (and later the Android version), no Tinder, no Spotify. Now all of tech is seeking the next major platform and area of growth. Will it be virtual and augmented reality, or perhaps self-driving cars? Artificial intelligence, robotics, cryptocurrency or digital health? We are stumbling in the dark.Apple has dabbled in a lot of these areas, but it still makes its money by selling mobile phones and the accessories around them. And while I love my AirPods and lose them weekly, my forking over $159 to Apple for my sloppiness is not going to help compared with buying a cool new phone.That business has surely leveled off, as no one upgrades quite as quickly as they did before, because of everything from the price tag and being worried about a recession to the simple fact that the new phones don’t offer that much more than the old ones. There is no question that Mr. Cook and his team have done a tremendous job taking advantage and managing this last cycle of innovation, but it’s apparent that it’s now winding down.This is a big issue not only for Apple but also for all of tech. There is not a major trend that you can grab onto right now that will carry everyone forward. The last cool set of companies — Uber, Airbnb, Pinterest and, yes, Tinder — were created many years ago, and I cannot think of another group that is even close to as promising.Well, rental scooters. O.K., they’re cool, but they are a derivative of the car rental business and are not going to make the big jumps in innovation that need to occur now. How innovation happens is a much more delicate thing than people imagine, a dance involving money, opportunity, timing, execution and, most important, one great idea behind it all.Where is that next spark that will light us all up?Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. HONG KONG — For years, no matter what was happening elsewhere, global companies bet billions upon billions of dollars that China’s consumers would keep spending money.Now, just when the world economy could use their financial firepower, they are holding back, worried about the country’s slowing growth, a trade war with the United States and  rising amounts of personal debt.Zhao Zheng, 26, is among the cost-conscious consumers.On Thursday, Mr. Zhao, a real estate agent, was browsing smartphones made by Xiaomi, a Chinese rival to Apple that prices its handsets at a fraction of what the American tech giant charges for iPhones. He said the success in China of Xiaomi and Miniso, a chain of low-cost variety stores, suggested that Chinese consumers were looking to get more for their money.“The economy,” Mr. Zhao said, “is definitely very bad.”A significant pullback could have a big impact on a world looking for engines of growth, on companies that counted on China’s continuing expansion and on global investors who have long viewed Chinese consumers as a steady source of profits.Stock markets stumbled again on Thursday, in part over concerns that American companies and manufacturers are starting to feel the effects from the slowdown in China and the trade war. The S&P 500 sank 2.5 percent, while shares of Apple dropped nearly 10 percent after the company unexpectedly slashed its financial forecast, citing disappointing iPhones sales in the country.The rise of the Chinese consumer is not over yet, and Apple’s disappointing numbers stem in part from the company’s own decisions. But the weakness at Apple followed reams of other data — declining car sales, faltering retail sales, a slumping property market, a tougher job market — that signal Chinese consumers may be losing their once unshakable confidence.The sagging confidence could undermine China’s efforts to redirect its economy and spur growth.The Chinese government hopes consumers will become a greater source of economic growth as the country’s longtime reliance on government-sponsored infrastructure projects and old-line industries like steel and cement pays ever-smaller dividends. In recent years, Beijing has rolled out a huge social safety net, tax breaks and other incentives to get people to spend more of their own money on the trappings of middle-class life.The spending slowdown in China could be a worrying sign for many of America’s biggest companies, too, at a time when their profits and stock prices are under pressure.Greater China — a region that includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan — is Apple’s third-largest market after the United States and Europe, accounting for $52 billion in annual sales in the company’s most recent fiscal year. General Motors, through local joint ventures, sells more cars in China than it does in the United States. Eight percent of Procter & Gamble’s total sales in 2017 came from Greater China.Other companies are also feeling the pinch. China’s auto market, the biggest in the world, saw sales fall during the first 11 months of last year. Sales of all smartphones fell by 13 percent in the third quarter of 2018.Chinese consumers continued to spend relatively briskly during other recent slowdowns, and they could still help get the country’s economy back on track. But they have reasons to be reticent now.By many measures, the country’s growth has slowed because of government efforts to wean the economy off a heavy reliance on borrowing as well as other policies that have shaken the confidence of the country’s entrepreneurs.“China is at a turning point in its economy,” said Andrew Collier, the founder of research firm Orient Capital Research. “They’ve basically been on a debt-fueled binge for a decade.” He added, “It’s difficult to turn the ship from industry to consumer at a time of rough waters.”For many people, circumstances have changed.China has too many apartments that home buyers do not want, depressing a property market that is the largest source of wealth for Chinese households. The stock market lost around a quarter of its value in 2018.And although they  have a long way to go to catch up to Americans, Chinese households are laboring under growing amounts of debt. Unorthodox Chinese lenders like the online shadow-banking networks known as peer-to-peer lenders are stumbling, giving consumers fewer places to borrow more.Declining business confidence, rising labor costs and the trade war with the United States also appear to be hurting the job market.China does not disclose reliable unemployment data. But a recent survey by Mr. Collier of job postings, recruitment ads, numbers of applicants on recruitment websites and interviews with corporate managers suggested labor demand had weakened significantly. Hiring demand in import and export industries has been hit especially hard, falling 53 percent in the third quarter compared with a year earlier, the survey found.Against that backdrop, it is not surprising that many consumers are looking for ways to spend less.Wang Xiaochuan, who made about $145,000 a year as a pharmaceutical sales representative in Yantai in 2015, now makes less than a third of that thanks to a tightening of regulations on the drug industry. He has cut back his spending, buying Clarks shoes instead of the more expensive Ecco brand, or Coach goods rather than Louis Vuitton.“I’m hearing a lot more bad news about the economy than good news now,” he said.In a country with an aspirational culture that for decades has encouraged people to get rich, Apple has long held a special place. Having a new iPhone meant its owner had made it. Seven years ago, the release of a new iPhone set off scuffles in front of an Apple store in Beijing.But price increases have put the iPhone beyond the reach of more and more Chinese buyers. An iPhone XR starts at 6,499 yuan, or about $950, just over two and a half months’ worth of disposable income for the average Chinese person.Rumors once circulated about young people selling kidneys to buy an iPhone. Now, the online joke goes, it would cost two kidneys.On the last day of 2018, William Tan, a 30-year-old university teacher in the southern city of Nanning, replaced his iPhone 7 with a phone made by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. Although the Huawei phone cost more than $700, about a month’s salary for him, it was still more than $200 cheaper than the base iPhone XR. He had used an iPhone 5, 6 and 7. But when his iPhone 7 broke down, he found he could no longer afford the latest iPhone.The Huawei phone, he said, works fairly smoothly and takes better photos than the iPhone.“I won’t choose Apple again at this price range,” he said.Chinese consumers are by no means done with certain discretionary purchases. Spending on movie tickets and services remains strong, economists said.But the consumer slowdown could worsen if Beijing does not address its economic problems.“The question is whether China can stabilize economic growth when it is facing economic headwinds,” said Wei Li, senior China economist at Standard Chartered.“If the labor market does worsen in 2019 or if financial conditions don’t improve, if the stock market remains low, all this could weigh on consumer confidence,” Mr. Li said.Given the uncertainty, many Chinese spenders will most likely continue to scrimp.Wu Yan, a tech company worker who was looking at Xiaomi phones on Thursday afternoon, said he had also tried Apple and Huawei phones and had decided they were not much different from one another. What matters, he said, was the apps, and they work the same from phone to phone.But Mr. Wu, 40, also said many middle-class Chinese people like him had reached a stage where their work was stable, their income was secure and they no longer needed to show off their spending power. His computer at home? It’s four or five years old now, but it still works fine.“Now we spend just to fulfill our needs,” he said.Each week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, It’s Erin Griffith, reporting, happily, from my home base in San Francisco and not the carnival of virtual assistants, shiny screens, crowded smart homes and greasy VR demos in Las Vegas. Our correspondents made the CES maze of gadgets look almost fun, which anyone who has been there before knows is an impressive feat.Back in the land of magical, billion-dollar start-up unicorns, things have been quieter, thanks to the federal government shutdown. No Securities and Exchange Commission means no progress on initial public offering plans of the larger start-ups, including Uber and Lyft.Any other time in the last five years, this would not have mattered. The unicorns have been putting off their public market debuts for as long as possible — what’s another month or two? But a volatile stock market and signs of a possible recession have fostered a creeping sense of panic.As The Times reported in December, Uber and Lyft already accelerated their I.P.O. plans to try to get ahead of a potential market shift. This week, Dara Khosrowshahi, chief executive of Uber, tempered expectations, telling The Wall Street Journal that market turbulence was not likely to affect the company’s plans, but “if it doesn’t happen, it doesn’t happen.”Uber shareholders would most likely be disappointed if the company does not go public in the coming year, he added.The shutdown, volatility and recession fears are happening at a crucial moment. The start-up world’s success hinges, in part, on its ability to use hype and “trust me” confidence to persuade people to believe in a vision of the future. It’s easy to get caught up in the narrative of innovation, disruption and rising valuations (and ignore the lack of profits).But not everyone has, and skeptics are getting louder. Chamath Palihapitiya, a prominent venture capital investor, recently called the entire start-up and venture capital system a “charade” and “an enormous multivariate kind of Ponzi scheme.”He’s right in one sense: A Ponzi scheme relies on its creator’s ability to persuade ever-larger crowds to buy into his or her vision. Same goes for start-ups that haven’t proved they’re able to turn a profit. A flash of doubt, especially among public-market investors, could spiral into a broader questioning of the entire start-up ecosystem.For the largest, most valuable start-ups in Silicon Valley, many of which plan to prove themselves and their unprofitable business models to the world by going public, there could not be a worse moment for that to happen. If Uber can’t go public, what does it mean for all the “Uber for X” companies that followed its lead?Cracks are beginning to show. This week, two high-flying start-ups experienced a reality check in their fund-raising. WeWork sought to raise $16 billion in new funding from SoftBank, its main backer. The company wound up raising just $2 billion — still an enormous pile of cash, but a steep step down from its original plan.And Bird, a two-year-old scooter company that was so sought-after by investors last summer that they doubled the company’s valuation in just a few weeks, is now raising funding at a flat valuation, according to Axios.Some venture capital investors say they welcome a downturn, as I wrote this week. They’re hoarding cash and making “downturn lists” of companies to invest in once valuations become more reasonable. And some companies have seen the venture-fueled madness and decided it’s not for them.Elsewhere this week:■ Economists and investors are clashing over the health of the American economy. No one is debating the health of the Chinese economy, with concerns spreading to non-tech companies including Ford, FedEx, Starbucks and Tiffany, Matt Phillips writes.■ Apple’s biggest issue is not the Chinese economy, it’s that people like the columnist Kevin Roose’s mother don’t feel the need to replace their phones every two years anymore.■ That may explain the surprising news from CES that Apple struck deals with a number of hardware companies, including Vizio, Samsung, Sony and LG, to use its software. The deals — something the company has resisted in the past — show Apple’s ambition to make more money from content and services, as sales of its cash cow, the iPhone, slow down, Brian X. Chen writes.■ When the government asked Palantir and Oracle to share the number of women and minorities it employs, the companies tried to hide the numbers, citing them as “trade secrets.” According to a report from Reveal News, the numbers are abysmal. (Palantir has no female executives and just one female manager.) The publication sued to obtain the letters the companies sent justifying their privacy around the issue. The Palantir letter cited fears that competitors would steal their lone female manager.SEATTLE — The Seattle area, home to both Microsoft and Amazon, is a potent symbol of the affordable housing crisis that has followed the explosive growth of tech hubs. Now Microsoft, arguing that the industry has an interest and responsibility to help people left behind in communities transformed by the boom, is putting up $500 million to help address the problem.Microsoft’s money represents the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread in areas where the industry is concentrated, particularly on the West Coast. It will fund construction for homes affordable not only to the company’s own non-tech workers, but also for teachers, firefighters and other middle- and low-income residents.Microsoft’s move comes less than a year after Amazon successfully pushed to block a new tax in Seattle that would have made large businesses pay a per-employee tax to fund homeless services and the construction of affordable housing. The company said the tax created a disincentive to create jobs. Microsoft, which is based in nearby Redmond, Wash., and has few employees who work in the city, did not take a position on the tax.The debate about the rapid growth of the tech industry and the inequality that often follows has spilled across the country, particularly as Amazon, with billions of taxpayer subsidies, announced plans to build major campuses in Long Island City, Queens, and Arlington, Va., that would employ a total of at least 50,000 people. In New York, elected officials and residents have raised concerns that Amazon has not made commitments to support affordable housing.Microsoft has been at the vanguard of warning about the potential negative effects of technology, like privacy or the unintended consequences of artificial intelligence. Executives hope the housing efforts will spur other companies to follow its lead.“We believe everybody has a role to play, and everybody needs to play their role,” said Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer.The company’s strong finances, a sign of its resurgence under Satya Nadella as chief executive, have given it resources to deploy, Mr. Smith said. In October, the company reported net income of $8.8 billion in its most recent quarter, up 34 percent, and it had almost $136 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet. The company’s stock has risen steadily under Mr. Nadella, and Microsoft is now valued at over $800 billion.A number of other tech businesses have tried to address the homeless crisis. Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has supported homeless service providers through his personal foundation, and the Salesforce chief executive, Marc Benioff, helped fund a proposition in San Francisco to tax businesses to pay for homeless services. Voters approved the tax in November, rejecting opposition from some tech leaders, including Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.Others plan to build housing for their own employees. Such housing may help with demand, but it has also reinforced the impression that the companies are focused too closely on their own backyards.“This is long-range thinking by a company that has been around for a long time, and plans to be around for a long time,” said Margaret O’Mara, a professor at the University of Washington who studies the history of tech companies.Microsoft began researching the region’s housing last summer, after the nasty tax fight in Seattle and around a peak of the housing market. The company analyzed data and hired a consultant to decide how to focus its work. The area’s home prices have almost doubled in the past eight years, and Mr. Smith said he learned that “the region has counterintuitively done less to build middle-income housing than low-income housing, especially in the suburbs.”That squeeze hits a range of workers. “Of course, we have lots of software engineers, but the reality is that a lot of people work for Microsoft. Cafeteria workers, shuttle drivers,” Mr. Nadella said this week at a meeting with editors at the company’s headquarters. “It is a supply problem, a market failure.”Microsoft plans to lend $225 million at subsidized rates to preserve and build middle-income housing in six cities near its Redmond headquarters. It will put an additional $250 million into low-income housing across the region. Some of those loans may be made through the federal programs that provide tax breaks for low-income housing.The company plans to invest the money within three years, and expects most of it to go to Seattle’s suburbs.The loans could go to private or nonprofit developers, or to governmental groups like the King County Housing Authority. As the loans are repaid, Mr. Smith said, Microsoft plans to lend the money out again to support additional projects.The remaining $25 million will be grants to local organizations that work with the homeless, including legal aid for people fighting eviction. The Seattle Times reported Wednesday that if the $500 million were put into one project, it would create only about 1,000 units, so instead Microsoft will most likely put smaller amounts in many projects to help build “tens of thousands of units.”The initial reaction to the company’s announcement was positive.“There is almost no level of housing that isn’t direly needed,” said Claudia Balducci, a member of the King County Council who helps lead the Regional Affordable Housing Task Force.A report in December by the task force said that the region needs 156,000 more affordable housing units, and will need 88,000 more units by 2040 to accommodate future growth.A growing body of research has tied the lack of affordable housing to increasing homelessness. A December study from the real estate website Zillow said that was particularly true when households pay more than a third of their income in rent. The New York, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle regions — the country’s largest tech hubs — have all already crossed that threshold.“The idea that you can live in your bubble and put your fingers in your ears just doesn’t work anymore,” said Steve Schwartz, head of public affairs at Tableau Software, which is based in Seattle.Amazon in recent years has worked closely with Mary’s Place, a homeless shelter for women and children in Seattle, and is integrating a shelter for about 65 families into one of its new buildings. Amazon has paid tens of millions of dollars to the city’s affordable housing trust fund as fees to build in the core of Seattle.Amazon declined to comment.Google supported the City of Mountain View’s plan to add 10,000 housing units in an area it’s developing, with 20 percent designated for lower-income residents. And Facebook has planned to build 1,500 apartments near its Menlo Park headquarters, with 15 percent to be affordable.Microsoft has begun a major overhaul of its main campus in Redmond, committing billions of dollars in renovations and connecting it to a light rail station under construction. The company helped finance a successful campaign for voters to approve more property taxes to pay for transportation. This new investment in housing takes its commitments a step further.“This is where Microsoft is going to be, and the region needs to work,” Ms. Balducci said. “I don’t think this is wholly altruism.”After months of stock market declines, investment strategists are divided on appropriate responses.There is a range of possible approaches, none as simple as the kind of straightforward investing that can lead to immediate rewards when the market is consistently rising.Chris Brightman, chief investment officer at the investment advisory service Research Affiliates, for example, is currently unimpressed with most stocks.“We do advise our investors to hold lower allocations to global equities — particularly U.S. equities — than normal,” Mr. Brightman said. He urged broad diversification into such vehicles as Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, commodities and real estate investment trusts, as well as a tax-sheltered structure known as a master limited partnership. But he concedes that with “the exception of M.L.P.s,” all are expensively priced.Holding cash, in the form of a money-market fund, is another answer, but it is far from perfect, he said. “The problem with cash is you don’t make any money,” Mr. Brightman said. “It’s the safest place to keep your money, but you get zero real return.”Nick Kalivas, senior equity product strategist at Invesco, said it was worth at least “thinking about” tweaking a portfolio to fortify it against risk.He suggests funds that focus on stocks specifically selected because their fluctuations are low: They are known as low-volatility stocks, and they have outperformed the S&P 500 in 14 of the last 15 market downturns since 2011, according to Invesco.Four times a year, Invesco compiles a list of the lowest-volatility stocks in the S&P 500. These are the companies whose shares are least affected by market turbulence. The current list features Coca-Cola as the least-volatile equity, followed by two utilities, the WEC Energy Group and Duke Energy, according to Mr. Kalivas.Low-volatility stocks outperformed the market for most of 2018, according to Mo Haghbin, head of product research and development for Oppenheimer funds. Through December, portfolios of low-volatility stocks in the Oppenheimer Russell 1000 Dynamic Multifactor Exchange-Traded Fund lost 2.43 percent as opposed to the fund’s benchmark, the Russell 1000, which lost 4.78 percent, Mr. Haghbin said. High-quality companies — defined by superior grades on such metrics as return on assets, profits, margins and leverage — also outperformed, losing 2.68 percent.But investors who shift toward low-volatility portfolios should remember that such portfolios have historically lagged once the market turns up.Two low-volatility E.T.F.s that outperformed the S&P 500 in 2018 were: Hartford Multifactor Low Volatility US Equity E.T.F., which was basically flat, and Invesco S&P 500 Low Volatility E.T.F., which lost just over 2 percent. The S&P 500 was down 6.2 percent last year.Investors may also be wondering what to do about tech stocks, especially the Faangs (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google), which have been losing altitude rapidly after a seemingly endless ascent.Through December, Facebook and Netflix were both down over 35 percent from their highs of last year. Apple and Amazon were each off more than 25 percent from their 2018 highs.Although Kevin Landis is portfolio manager of the tech-focused Firsthand Technology Opportunities fund, he said he is wary of the big tech stocks. “When companies get bigger, they start looking more and more like government agencies,” he said. “Even the biggest opportunities are at the saturation point. There’s only so many iPhones you can sell.”With evidence of rising public concern about consumer privacy, Mr. Landis said, he expects to see greater regulation. “I spent the last 15 to 20 years being appalled at how readily people surrendered their own privacy,” he said. “I welcome the idea that they’ve become more aware.”Mr. Landis said there were still good values in smaller tech companies. One major holding is Roku, which hopes to lure consumers who subscribe to cable. He contrasted its market cap of under $4 billion with Netflix’s $111 billion market cap and said Roku was a better value.But many advisers say investors should simply hold tight. Brian McMahon, manager of the Thornburg Investment Income Builder mutual fund, said that in many ways, the recent downturn “is pretty normal. This is not something to panic about.” He said his largest investment, the CME Group, benefits from an active market. It makes good profits when people trade on options and futures contracts made on its platforms, he said. “CME Group benefits from volatility,” he said.In a similar vein, Kate Moore, chief equity strategist at BlackRock, said, “This is not a time to derisk and become completely defensive.” There are still “pockets of quality” in the volatile markets, she added, citing the Chinese tech sector as one example.But she said there were at least two major threats in the longer term. “We are increasingly concerned about long-term deficits and their impact on the bond market,” she said. Bonds, already pressured in the near term by Federal Reserve rate increases, could also face long-term rate pressure from the ballooning Treasury financing required by mounting budget deficits.Ms. Moore also said tech stocks could eventually lose value if new regulations were imposed to protect consumer privacy. “We don’t expect any major regulatory changes in 2019,” she said. “We certainly expect the government will impose regulations over the medium term.”Mr. Haghbin of Oppenheimer emphasized that portfolio decisions should reflect an investor’s view of the larger economy. “If an investor feels that growth will continue to slow and risk appetite continue to decline, historically he would emphasize high-quality and low-volatility companies.”But, as Mr. Haghbin warned, investors may need to be nimble. “Things can change very quickly,” he said.In a shaky stock market, you may be enticed by funds that promise to make money whenever stocks fall.There is a group of funds that actually fulfill this claim. Yet most people should beware: They are definitely not recommended for the casual investor.They are called inverse exchange-traded funds, and as their name implies, their value moves in the opposite direction of their benchmarks. When the stock market rises, they fall; when the market falls, they rise.In addition, some of these funds are leveraged, which means that they bet against their benchmarks by a factor of, say, two to one or three to one.Take the ProShares UltraPro Short S&P 500, an inverse fund that shorts the S&P 500-stock index at three-to-one leverage. On Dec. 17, the E.T.F. closed up $2.63 for a gain of 6.10 percent for the day while the S&P 500 fell 2.08 percent. (Because of fees and other issues, index funds, inverse or not, typically don’t track indexes exactly.)But those impressive results don’t come easy. Inverse E.T.F.s aren’t designed for the average do-it-yourself investor. You aren’t likely to find them offered in your 401(k) for a good reason: Inverse E.T.F.s can quickly destroy the value in a portfolio.Instead, inverse E.T.F.s are designed to function as a very short-term trading strategy for extremely knowledgeable investors.“These funds are built for short-term speculation. They’re designed to be outliers,” said Paul Justice, director of data methodology for Morningstar. “Individual investors find their way into these products, and if they’re not careful about their holding periods, they can be in for an unpleasant surprise. And the more leveraged the fund is, the more unpleasant the surprise will be.”At first blush, an E.T.F. that gains when the market falls may sound like an easy way to hedge a portfolio without resorting to more complicated strategies involving options and short-selling. Leveraged E.T.F.s offer the potential for greater rewards (and, naturally, risks) without the need to open a margin account and run the chance that, if the market moves in the opposite direction, the investor could be forced to raise cash by liquidating profitable holdings, triggering taxes on any gains, as well as possible fees.The benefits of an inverse E.T.F. can be valuable — but only for a day at a time, said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com.“This is trading, not investing,” he said. “Inverse E.T.F.s are designed to track daily movements, not long-term movements.”Mr. McBride added: “If you have an inverse S&P 500 E.T.F., it’s designed to rise 1 percent today if the S&P 500 falls 1 percent today. But if the S&P is down 5 percent over the next 12 months, don’t expect the inverse to be up 5 percent.”Consider that while the S&P 500 was down about 5 percent for the year as of mid-December, the ProShares UltraPro Short S&P 500 had a year-to-date loss of 18 percent. By the close of trading for the year, however, the UltraPro ETF was up 2.3 percent for the year, compared with the S&P 500’s loss of 6.2 percent. Although the fund did finish up, it was well off its three-to-one short ratio for the year.That’s because inverse funds are rebalanced at the end of each trading day to restore the targeted risk exposure. Over more than a day or two, that daily reset can compound the fund’s exposure to a dangerous degree. Yet the fund’s benchmark simply continues to make daily gains or losses with no rebalancing, said John Swolfs, chief executive of Inside E.T.F.s, a four-day, 200-speaker annual conference on E.T.F.s organized by Informa Exhibitions USA.“If you can pick and choose your days right, you can do well,” he said, “but if you think you’ll buy this on Monday and sell it on Friday, your returns won’t be good.”Pro Shares offers 62 inverse E.T.F.s, said Michael Sapir, the company’s chief executive.“They’ve been tested through the tech boom and the financial crisis, and they all acted to do what they advertise,” he said.Even so, for individual investors looking to protect themselves from market reversals, better strategies probably include conservative asset allocation with holdings of bonds and even cash.“If you’re sitting on the trading desk at one of the big Wall Street banks, this is probably something you’re very familiar with and it’s not your first rodeo,” Mr. McBride of Bankrate.com said. “But for the individual investor, short-term strategies are just a fancy way of saying ‘market timing.’ And the biggest danger individual investors have is themselves.”With its $500 million pledge to address affordable housing in the Seattle area, Microsoft isn’t primarily cutting checks to local charities. Private companies have done that before. Nor is it proposing to create housing for its own employees, as corporations have done in the past, too.Rather, Microsoft is trying to help fix a market failure — a job government typically does.“It really represents something almost unprecedented,” said Matthew Gordon Lasner, an associate professor of urban studies and planning at Hunter College. “What we’re seeing Microsoft do is in effect privately assume the role that historically the federal government and the states have played.”Microsoft’s announcement is welcome news in the Seattle region, where housing costs have risen faster lately than in any other part of the country. But the fact that a tech company has to step in to help ensure the development of affordable housing points to a long-building reality nationwide: The federal government has largely retreated from this role.The government spent about three times as much on housing programs in the 1970s as it does today, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition. In the years since, the government has gotten out of the business of building public housing. And capital funds to repair the remaining public housing stock have been cut in half over the last 15 years. Over this time, federal resources have increasingly shifted away from subsidizing the construction of affordable housing to subsidizing renters who find housing in the private market. And now most new below-market-rate housing is built not by public agencies, but by nonprofit developers leveraging tax credits. The value of those credits has declined recently as well, as a result of changes in the tax bill passed in 2017.In a sense, Microsoft’s proposal is an extension of this story, as private actors continue to step in where the government once stood.“Our part to play is to bring capital to solve this problem,” Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, said at an event introducing the plan on Thursday. Today in the Seattle region, the problem isn’t simply that government support has dwindled. Construction and land costs to build new housing have risen, and the wages that low-skilled workers can afford to spend on rent have stagnated.“There is no public entity that can fill a hole as big as this,” Mr. Smith said. If the only focus is putting money into public housing, he said, “it will go too slowly and you will end up with housing that may not stand the test of time.”Microsoft says it plans to spend $25 million on grants to local nonprofits working on homelessness. But the bulk of the money will be invested, some in affordable housing developments that use tax credits, and others in middle-class developments that wouldn't be financially feasible without lower-interest loans. As those loans are repaid, Microsoft will lend the capital to other developments as well, in theory leveraging the money to create what Microsoft estimates could be tens of thousands of units of housing, or far more than would be possible if the company simply spent the money directly building apartments itself.Ed Goetz, a professor at the University of Minnesota who has studied the history of public housing in America, said: “I don’t want to diminish the magnitude of what they’re doing. I think it’s important, and it will help. But it won’t solve Seattle’s problem.” Microsoft has called for other companies to become involved. But Mr. Goetz said he couldn’t imagine a situation where there were enough Microsofts out there to truly address the country’s housing crisis.“The federal government is the entity that has the resources to do this,” Mr. Goetz said.Diane Yentel, the president of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, said she would welcome a trend in which more major tech companies put up money to address housing. But she warned of the risk of further letting the government off the hook. “Today’s modern phenomenon of homelessness didn’t exist in the late 1970s because our country housed almost everyone, including the lowest-income and most vulnerable families,” Ms. Yentel said in an email. “The key difference between then and now is declining federal subsidies.”As Microsoft unveiled its plans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development remained largely shuttered in Washington during the government shutdown. Federal contracts with hundreds of property owners who provide housing to subsidized tenants have expired during the shutdown, leaving thousands of families at risk of losing their homes. Activists in communities like Seattle have made a strong case that tech companies bear some responsibility for making the housing crisis worse. Those companies have brought thousands of highly paid workers into housing markets that don’t have room for everyone. But among the many culprits behind the crisis, the government’s retrenchment is critical, too.“This is a problem that is rooted in our political culture,” Mr. Lasner said. “It’s a problem that’s rooted in the myths we tell ourselves about who we are as Americans. We’ve always been skittish and uncomfortable with the idea of housing subsidies, or even interventions like rent control.” Americans are more comfortable with private-sector solutions, he said. But for an area as complicated as housing, he added, “they’re not enough to cope with the challenge.”Karen Weise contributed reporting.Exchange-traded funds became the next big thing in portfolio management a couple of decades ago by being cheaper and easier to trade than mutual funds.These days, some managers are offering E.T.F.s as tools for specialization at the expense of diversification, carving up the stock market into ever thinner slices for investors eager to find other next big things.E.T.F.s have evolved from covering only broad indexes, such as the S&P 500, to sectors like energy and health care, industries like homebuilding and gold mining, and lately to subsets of industries — niches within niches — often in ultracool areas like robotics, cybersecurity and video gaming that capture investors’ imaginations and then their money.While investment advisers occasionally use thematic funds when managing assets for their clients, they typically encourage small investors to avoid the practice, no matter how enticing it might be to try to find the next Amazon, Netflix or Google before it becomes a technological colossus.“We would prefer that someone build a portfolio around more diversified funds,” said Jason Browne, chief investment strategist of the FundX Investment Group, a firm that manages fund portfolios for high-net-worth individuals. He warned: “If you’re an average investor, you will probably look back and think this is something you were sold and not something thoughtfully invested in that’s aligned with your long-term goals.”Like Mr. Browne, Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic, a Morristown, N.J., financial-planning firm, said he sees more fund marketing than fund management at work with narrowly focused E.T.F.s.“It sort of reminds me of ‘The Graduate,’ when the guy takes Benjamin aside and says, ‘I’ve got one word: plastics,’” Mr. Cordaro said. Providers of these funds “are looking for things that sound good to people, then they give them an itch they’ll want to scratch.”Sam Masucci, chief executive of the ETF Managers Group, which manages about $3 billion across 12 thematic portfolios, said funds dedicated to such narrow market segments are especially dependent on investor demand and are introduced in areas experiencing a surge in popularity.His company’s thematic funds are a mix of actively managed and passively managed portfolios. In addition to cybersecurity and gaming funds, they cover some highly focused, even obscure, industries, including mobile payments and drone technology. And for anyone worried that all that cutting-edge technology will make human beings too efficient and productive, the company also offers the Alternative Harvest fund, which invests in companies involved in marijuana production.Anyone interested in these areas, despite admonitions like Mr. Browne’s, has several alternatives to choose from.A recent report on thematic E.T.F.s by Todd Rosenbluth, director of E.T.F. and mutual fund research at CFRA Research, highlighted two gaming funds — VanEck Vectors Video Gaming and eSports, and ETFMG Video Game Tech — and two that invest in cybersecurity: ETFMG Prime Cyber Security and First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity.The report also mentioned four that cover the burgeoning field of robotics: ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index, Global X Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, First Trust Nasdaq Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, and iShares Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.The performance of many of them last year illustrates the perils of owning an idea that would seem to have a lot of promise but so far has not delivered on it. The S&P 500 fell 6.2 percent last year, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, a benchmark for technology stocks, lost 3.9 percent. The ETFMG gaming fund lagged both indexes badly, losing 18.8 percent, while the VanEck gaming fund was down 12.6 percent just since its introduction in mid-October.The cybersecurity funds did much better. ETFMG Prime Security rose 6.5 percent in 2018, and the First Trust fund eked out a 1.3 percent gain.As for the robotics portfolios, their returns have been awful. None of the four came close to matching the Nasdaq index. Losses last year ranged between 14 percent and 29 percent.Because interest in these areas tends to come and go, Mr. Browne uses thematic E.T.F.s to carry out short-term asset allocation decisions. Haim Israel, head of thematic investing at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, by contrast, views several technologies covered by the E.T.F.s as long-term opportunities.The business and investment prospects associated with themes like Big Data, artificial intelligence, privacy and cyberthreats, the report said, will be helped by a “techceleration” resulting from the introduction of so-called 5G technology featuring much faster data transmission rates. The rollout of 5G “will bring about the fastest transformation in human history,” Mr. Israel predicted. The reduced time it will take to transmit data will help the spread of all sorts of technologies, like gaming or self-driving cars, he said.Mr. Israel’s analysis and outlook are plausible — for the world as it is today and for various technologies as they have developed so far. As for five years from now, who knows? Change, often radical and unforeseeable, is a hallmark of the sector, making most forecasts speculative at best. That is one of the main complaints that investment advisers have with thematic E.T.F.s.“We’ve been around long enough to see a lot of the ‘next big thing,’ said Leon LaBrecque, chief executive of LJPR Financial Advisors in Troy, Mich. “Remember Blockbuster or Boston Chicken? Anyone remember the first search engine? New tech becomes old tech.”For investors interested in taking a shot with thematic E.T.F.s, advisers suggest using risk capital, and then only small amounts of it.Mr. Masucci views thematic E.T.F.s as superior alternatives to buying individual stocks. These E.T.F.s “are a tax efficient, liquid, transparent way to give that exposure without relying on advisers’ ability to pick stocks,” he said.But Mr. Cordaro pointed to a conundrum that anyone contemplating investing in thematic E.T.F.s faces: “Because they can be riskier, you wouldn’t want them to be too much of your portfolio,” no more than 5 percent, he said. “The paradox is that’s not going to move the needle that much. You’re not going to make much money on it.”If you still want to try to move the needle, he advises doing it with funds that emphasize smaller, younger businesses that are pure plays in a particular niche and that don’t fill their portfolios with established companies that only dabble in fledgling technology.Mr. Rosenbluth noted in his report, for instance, that the VanEck and ETFMG gaming funds both hold the gaming stocks Activision and Electronic Arts, but only the ETFMG fund owns the larger, more diversified tech stocks Apple and Microsoft. By contrast, the ETFMG cybersecurity portfolio is more skewed toward smaller software companies than First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity, while the latter holds more in big defense companies like Raytheon than the ETFMG fund does.As for the robotics funds, the two with portfolios published on third-party sites like Morningstar’s, ROBO Global Robotics and Global X Robotics, each own big companies like Nvidia and Intuitive Surgical, and smaller ones like Helix Energy Solutions.In the end, the most effective way to invest in the next big thing may be to avoid trying to do it through thematic E.T.F.s at all.“Why even go for that ride is the question,” Mr. Browne said. When you own a diversified fund, “whatever drives the economy is going to be in your portfolio. It doesn’t rely on your or my predictions of what that’s going to be.”Mr. LaBrecque recommended a similarly broad, simple approach.“We can buy the S&P 500 and get the new FANGs,” a reference to Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, “and the next acronym of choice,” he said. “And we can get the companies that make all the stuff people buy on Amazon, and the cars people drive to the store to buy the food to eat while they watch Netflix. And when the next thing comes along, we can own that, as well.”Jeff Bezos and his wife, MacKenzie, may be the first billionaire couple with a huge stake in an enormous technology company to announce their divorce.They won’t be the last.The surprise announcement last week that the Bezoses would divorce after 25 years of marriage instantly raised questions about the future of their 16 percent, roughly $140 billion stake in Amazon. As its founder, chairman, chief executive and largest shareholder, Mr. Bezos exerts almost complete control over the company he created.The big question is, now what? Will Ms. Bezos sell her portion of the family’s vast Amazon holdings? Will she seek a seat on the company’s board? Will she push for big strategic or management changes?The Bezos divorce could have consequences for investors in other companies with billionaire founders — Google, Facebook, Groupon and Snap, to name a few. Unlike Mr. Bezos, who owns Amazon shares with ordinary voting rights, these tech entrepreneurs wield control of their companies by holding special classes of shares that confer extra power to their owners.To put it more explicitly: What would happen if Mark Zuckerberg and his wife filed for divorce?That’s not to suggest there’s anything amiss in the relationship between Mr. Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, or with the marriages of controlling shareholders at any other giant tech company.[Who is MacKenzie Bezos? Her private life has become a public fascination.]But more such breakups are inevitable — after all, the divorce rate in California is about 60 percent, and many of the founders of high-flying Silicon Valley companies are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis.The phenomenon of tech companies with controlling founders is still relatively recent. Google set a trend when it went public in 2004 with dual-class shares that enshrined Sergey Brin and Larry Page as the controlling owners. In the ensuing 15 years, about two-thirds of initial public stock offerings backed by venture capital funds have involved similar super-shares, according to Dealogic.The fate of such controlling shares in cases of divorce is, or should be, of intense interest to investors.David F. Larcker, director of the Corporate Governance Research Initiative at Stanford’s business school and a co-author of “Separation Anxiety: The Impact of CEO Divorce on Shareholders,” said his research showed that “shareholders should pay attention to matters involving the personal lives of C.E.O.s and take this information into account when making investment decisions.”The law doesn’t explicitly require controlling shareholders to disclose prenuptial or other agreements that could affect the disposal of their company stakes in the event of divorce. But some experts said they would support such a requirement.“It’s absolutely material, and as a result it should be disclosed,” said John C. Coffee Jr., director of the Center for Corporate Governance at Columbia University. In theory, he said, any provision that would reassure investors would lead to a higher share price. “There’s no question it’s in the best interests of shareholders,” he said.Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the corporate governance center at the University of Delaware, also supports the disclosure of prenuptial agreements. “No one thought a Bezos divorce was a risk factor” for Amazon, Mr. Elson said. “Now no one knows how this will turn out. From a shareholder perspective, it’s certainly material.”Mr. Larcker said requiring public disclosure might be going a little too far, considering the privacy issues involved. But he agreed that, at the least, a board needed to be kept fully informed.“Once a divorce settlement is underway,” he said, “the board needs to think about whether the ex-spouse will demand a board seat, whether they are planning to liquidate their shares or perhaps sell as a block to an investor, maybe an activist. All of these actions can have a real impact on shareholder value.”So far, investors have hardly reacted to the Bezos breakup — Amazon’s shares are up slightly since the announcement. That might be partly because the couple went out of their way to characterize the split as amicable, saying they plan to “continue our shared lives as friends.”When many billions of dollars are at stake, amicable divorces are rare, even when they start out that way. “Most divorces start out contentious and end contentious,” said Samantha Bley DeJean, a matrimonial lawyer in San Francisco, who has worked with many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and represents Angelina Jolie in her custody battle with Brad Pitt. “When they start out amicably, you hold out some hope that they’ll stay that way, but in my experience it only gets worse.”In 2017 Mark Pincus, the billionaire founder of the internet game company Zynga, and Alison Gelb Pincus filed for divorce. The two had a prenuptial agreement, which hasn’t been made public, but presumably addressed the issue of Mr. Pincus’s 70 percent voting stake in Zynga. In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Pincus said the split was amicable.After the couple filed for divorce, Mr. Pincus converted his super-voting shares into ordinary shares, reducing his voting control of Zynga to about 10 percent. He told The Times that the conversion had nothing to do with the divorce.Ms. Pincus is an entrepreneur in her own right: she helped found the online retailer One Kings Lane, which was sold in 2016 to Bed Bath & Beyond for nearly $30 million. The Pincuses quietly finalized their divorce last year on terms that haven’t been made public. Zynga hasn’t disclosed any changes in Mr. Pincus’s shareholdings since then.A spokeswoman for Zynga, where Mr. Pincus remains executive chairman, declined to comment. Ms. DeJean, who represented Ms. Pincus, said she couldn’t discuss the case. But in general, she said, the fact that both spouses are extremely wealthy typically doesn’t change the dynamics of a divorce.“It becomes a matter of principle,” she said, “and principles can be dangerous in these situations, especially when there’s enough money to litigate them.”In their 2010 divorce, Steve and Elaine Wynn, the founders of the casino company Wynn Resorts, each received half of the couple’s 36 percent controlling stake in the company, valued then at $1.4 billion. To maintain Mr. Wynn’s control, Ms. Wynn agreed to vote her shares along with her ex-husband.At the time, the arrangement seemed amicable: Ms. Wynn warmly described Mr. Wynn as her “partner of 41 years and father of her children,” and Mr. Wynn said he was delighted that his ex-wife would remain on the company’s board.That didn’t last long. After two acrimonious years, Ms. Wynn was forced off the board and sued to regain voting control of her shares.The animosity only deepened after The Wall Street Journal reported last year that Mr. Wynn had repeatedly sexually harassed Wynn employees and had paid a manicurist $7.5 million after she told others that Mr. Wynn had forced her to have sex.That led Mr. Wynn to step down as chief executive. He sold his shares, leaving his former wife as the company’s largest shareholder. Since peaking in 2014, Wynn shares have fallen by more than half.Mr. Larcker’s research found that among 24 chief executives who got divorced between 2009 and 2012, seven (29 percent) stepped down within two years of the divorce settlement.Ms. DeJean said she had recently drafted numerous prenuptial agreements for young entrepreneurs. Negotiating them is delicate: It’s not especially romantic to be discussing the disposal of assets in a divorce proceeding in the middle of a courtship or engagement.The idea of making those prenuptial terms public could be anathema to such clients.Still, Ms. DeJean said, “I can see why investors would want to know.”“Wait —” is a weekly newsletter in which Caity Weaver investigates an unanswered (and possibly unasked) question in the news and pop culture. See last week’s inaugural edition and sign up here to receive it in your inbox going forward.One spring evening in 1901, a doctor in Massachusetts laid a tuberculosis-stricken man on a wooden platform so that the doctor could watch him die, and hopefully calculate the weight of his soul. For three hours and 40 minutes, Duncan MacDougall recalibrated his scales by fractions of ounces as the dying man’s nose and mouth dried out, and his last sweat evaporated off his skin. At the moment of the patient’s death (9:10 p.m.), Dr. MacDougall recorded that the scales registered an abrupt, inexplicable weight loss of three-fourths of an ounce. (To be certain this was not the effect of all the man’s breath leaving his body, the doctor then climbed onto the bed and breathed deeply; this did not affect the scales.) This incident gave rise to a notion that the human soul weighs roughly 21 grams; however, the doctor’s subsequent experiments, including a frantic attempt to document the weight of a woman dying of a diabetic coma, failed to achieve identical results. (Dr. MacDougall complained that that effort was thwarted by “a good deal of interference by people opposed to our work,” perhaps medical staff attempting to save a woman dying of a diabetic coma, a circumstance that need not be fatal.) A century later, Dr. MacDougall’s hypothesis has been largely rejected. But we do now possess the technology to know what a celebrity’s daughter’s doll is thinking.Qai Qai is a baby doll with brown plastic skin, wrinkled newborn feet, a blithe countenance and over 90,000 Instagram followers at most recent tally. She is the plaything of Olympia Ohanian, the daughter of the tennis star Serena Williams and her tech entrepreneur husband, Alexis Ohanian. Qai Qai is apparently also the direct descendant of Olympia Ohanian; text on her riveting (and verified) Instagram account, @RealQaiQai, identifies her as the “granddaughter” of Ms. Williams and Mr. Ohanian. It’s pronounced “kway kway.”Qai Qai takes several (known) forms: She is a doll; an Instagram user; a Twitter user; an animated representation of a doll superimposed onto digital photos; and an imagined Gremlin-like character wreaking pretend havoc on the hypothetical lives of Olympia Ohanian and her family. Qai Qai appears to have entered our collective consciousness early last August, when Ms. Williams uploaded a video of the doll lying in tricycle wreckage, explaining off-camera that she was documenting the scene “for Olympia’s insurance.” (She also accused Qai Qai of “vandalism.”) On Aug. 14, Ms. Williams told reporters at a post-match news conference that she was “kind of having to take care of Qai Qai now” because her infant daughter wanted “to live her life.” That day, a Twitter account called @RealQaiQai posted its first tweet. The following week, the @RealQaiQai Instagram account shared its first post. Earlier this week, an ESPN2 graphic from the Australian Open reminded viewers that Ms. Williams’s daughter’s doll had twice as many Twitter followers as Ms. Williams’s current opponent, who lost the match.Why?Because Qai Qai is something increasingly rare and prized in modern online society: mildly entertaining.The earliest Qai Qai content was wordless, evocative imagery of abandonment: the doll lying facedown on hardwood floor and on private jet tarmac; stuffed behind a hotel suite cushion; jammed headfirst into a sandbox at a resort where Ms. Williams was participating in a tennis exhibition. For reasons never explained, her limbs were frequently set in plastic doll casts. Sometimes she was pictured with tiny crutches.The posts evolved. Some of the changes have enhanced the enjoyment of Qai Qai; the visual juxtaposition of the cherubic doll with new world-weary captions written from Qai Qai’s point of view could be genuinely funny, as when a slide show revealed Qai Qai emerging from behind a kitchen island to ask the world, “What y’all mad about today?” (Neither Ms. Williams nor Mr. Ohanian have claimed authorship.) It is pleasant to view drone footage of Qai Qai alone on a yacht uploaded by Mr. Ohanian. Other additions, like an animated graphic Qai Qai digitally imposed on extant photos that Ms. Williams and Mr. Ohanian interact with across social platforms, are less welcome.It’s not known how Olympia came to possess Qai Qai. The doll may have been quasi-anonymously forged in the opaque fires of e-commerce hell, because it is a nearly exact match to an out-of-stock toy sold on Amazon under the brand name Dolls to Play. (Luckily, I ordered one.)Dolls to Play appears to exist solely on Amazon; a Google search of the label leads to a random product repository website that redirects to multiple different, yet seemingly identical, random product repository websites, all of which appear to blindly scrape information from Amazon. Dolls to Play toys are sold by an Amazon storefront called “Number 1 in Service,” which stocks thousands of unrelated products (orders fulfilled by Amazon). The same bedroom stock image pictured in the Amazon listing for the doll also appears spliced with a bedding set on Wayfair, and empty on a spam blog of house decorating keywords interspersed with the phrase “in Nigeria.”The doll I received was not the doll pictured, which wore pink; it is an exact Qai Qai copy, dressed in white. The box says “MADE IN NANJING, CHINA” and also “BROOKLYN LOLLIPOPS” — a company that lists a Brooklyn address, at a co-working space. Brooklyn Lollipops has its own Amazon listing for the same doll, also available for purchase from Walmart.com (online only).Yet it is possible that the sensational Qai Qai found her way to Olympia Ohanian from a realm even weirder than the bowels of the internet: in real life. Qai Qai’s Twitter account recently shared an image of a store shelf stocked with multiple races of Qai Qai, which appear to cycle through the inventories of various discount department stores.If you would like to see more Qai Qai, many videos of the doll initially posted to Ms. Williams’s social media accounts can be found combined into odd YouTube compilations with unrelated real estate footage by an account called Hestia Olympia’ Celebrity, Lifestyle & Culture, the avatar of which is a French oil painting that has been a part of Russia’s State Hermitage Museum collection since it was acquired in 1764 by Catherine the Great as part a lot of hundreds of paintings “of uneven quality.”The combined weight of the doll named Qai Qai plus her stroller is approximately 1,293 grams: roughly 61-and-a-half souls.After rising for nine years in a so-so economy in the belief that prosperity was just around the corner, stocks swooned, even as growth picked up.That left many investors wondering whether the economy is turning another corner into a place where danger, maybe even a recession and a prolonged bear market, lurk.The S&P 500 dropped 13.5 percent during the fourth quarter, including dividends, giving the index a 4.4 percent loss for the year by that measure. It was the worst performance since 2008, despite strong corporate earnings and the best readings in several decades in unemployment and consumer confidence.As 2019 unfolds and the economic picture becomes clearer, it is possible that stocks will have a sustained, orderly recovery, investment advisers say. But achieving that clarity will take time, so they encourage investors to demand a lot of evidence that a recession will be avoided before they commit money to stocks or other risky assets.“A lot of the derating that happened in the second half of 2018 started off being driven by political risk, but in the last few weeks, it has been driven by concerns about growth and stability,” said Kate Moore, chief equity strategist at BlackRock, referring to the decline in stocks. “I think that’s going to go on in the first few weeks of 2019. Everyone’s focused on economic data.”Ms. Moore highlighted surveys showing weaker-than-expected business conditions and added: “It’s going to take time for that to work itself through the market. I would expect more volatility as we take in new data points.”Just how weak those data points are likely to be is hard to predict.“The underlying fundamentals of the economy certainly have deteriorated,” said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. He noted that the five monthly regional business surveys conducted by Federal Reserve districts “were all extremely weak in December.”But the latest employment report was not. It showed 312,000 net jobs created last month.“We have a very mixed economic picture right now,” Mr. Yardeni said. “It all adds up to an economy that’s slowing but probably still growing.” If that’s true, then 2019 may not be so bad for the market.“Stocks are very cheap, with one important qualification,” he said: “You have to believe the economy is not going to wind up in recession.”He then offered another qualification, about forthcoming corporate earnings reports: “We still have to curb our enthusiasm because we can’t get too excited about the earnings outlook.”The tax cuts that took effect in 2018 sent earnings up so much for the year — the latest estimate for the S&P 500 was 20.2 percent, according to FactSet Research — that a 5 percent rise in earnings in 2019, aided by corporate buybacks, is about as much as Wall Street can expect, Mr. Yardeni said. FactSet’s latest forecast is for a 7.3 percent increase.Despite some good days for the market in January that may have been prompted by signs of flexibility from the Federal Reserve, the way stocks tumbled late in the year hardly inspires confidence. With anything like a repeat performance, investors will have to hope that other assets provide better protection than in 2018, when there were few places to hide.“Cash was the only major asset class that posted positive returns in ’18,” according to a Bank of America report. Even the reed-thin 1.9 percent return on cash in money market funds was less than the 2.2 percent consumer inflation rate, the report said, but at least it was a positive number. Long-term government bonds, corporate bonds and gold all lost ground, although they beat the return of the S&P 500. Oil and foreign stocks were among the investments that did worse.The average domestic stock fund lost 14.2 percent in the fourth quarter, with specialists in natural resources, technology and financial services leading the way down. These funds dropped 6.8 percent during the year, according to Morningstar. International stock funds outperformed during the quarter, losing 10.9 percent, but trailed badly for the full year, down 13.2 percent.Bond funds lost 0.9 percent in the quarter and 1 percent for all of 2018. High-yield portfolios were particularly weak, off 4.6 percent for the quarter and 2.8 percent for the year.Such across-the-board weakness is rare “because what tends to be bad for one asset tends to be good for some other asset somewhere,” said Ben Inker, head of asset allocation for the investment firm GMO. “The basic exception is when there is a combination of rising rates and slowing growth. Risky assets don’t like slowing growth, and fixed income doesn’t like rising rates.”Mr. Inker, like many, is worried that the Fed could push a fragile economy into recession. That would be “fairly ugly for valuations” of American stocks, he said, and he would avoid them even if he were confident that a recession could be skirted. He prefers stocks and bonds in emerging markets, which are much cheaper than their counterparts in mature economies.“We’re reasonably bullish on our ability to make money in 2019, just not in the assets most people have most of their money in,” he said.One reason for the poor returns on stocks, especially in December, is that the Fed initially had not seemed to share the fear felt on Wall Street. When the Fed raised its target for short-term interest rates last month, the move was almost universally anticipated, but the statement about economic conditions and monetary policy made after the increase “was not as dovish as the market was hoping for,” said Steve Kane, a bond fund manager at TCW.Recent data “signals an economic slowdown,” and not just in the United States, Mr. Kane said. Surveys “confirm a significant drop in manufacturing activity. There are also signals that growth in China is slowing dramatically and significantly,” he said.The flattening yield curve, with short-term interest rates approaching long-term rates, is consistent with an economy that is running out of steam, and a source of concern in itself. But recent remarks by Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the central bank will have “patience” in deciding whether to raise rates, appeared to cheer the markets.If rates are priced for a slowdown, some corporate bonds are not, Mr. Kane said. At least not yet. Spreads in yields between corporate and government debt have widened, taking bond prices down. Medium-term investment-grade corporate issues yielded 1.76 percentage points more than equivalent Treasury paper, as of Tuesday, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and an index of high-yield debt yielded 4.65 points more. A two-point cushion is roughly where investment-grade spreads tend to peak during a slowdown, but high-yield spreads typically soar to 10 points.“One should look at the fixed-income market as being more attractive to invest in 2019 than 2018, but one must still invest with some degree of caution, especially in the high-yield market,” he said. “There will be better opportunities later in the year” in high yield, while “there is not too much downside to investment-grade credit at this point.” He called it “a fairly good asset class if we’re in the midst of a bear market in equities.”Stocks that Ms. Moore at BlackRock thinks would do comparatively well against such a backdrop are of companies that are financially strong and able to grow, even when economic growth is modest at best. Health care is her top sector because it has those defensive qualities, as well as pockets of innovation, such as in medical technology, that support high profit margins.She said she is “not throwing in the towel on tech” in general, despite plunging share prices in big names like Apple and Facebook, and she said she particularly likes Asian tech companies. Ms. Moore also is “modestly encouraged” about emerging markets in Latin America and Asia, most notably Brazil and India.Brian Singer, head of dynamic allocation strategies at William Blair & Company, has been investing “with a greater emphasis on risk management,” he said. He finds American stocks “fundamentally less attractive” than others, such as emerging markets, including the two that Ms. Moore mentioned.Among mature economies, Mr. Singer likes Britain, although he would rather wait until the question of its departure from the European Union, Brexit, is settled before stepping in, and Spain. Markets he is shunning, aside from the United States, are Japan, Canada, Mexico and South Africa. As for bonds, he is avoiding the high-yield market, and he talked up the virtues of another asset class that is often overlooked.“In this environment, cash will be a relatively good alternative,” he said. “It won’t be a great return generator, but being cautious and holding cash is not a bad idea. It really is a time to remain defensive and have dry powder on hand.”With so much up in the air, Mr. Yardeni recommends not getting carried away. Investors should be selective about stocks and avoid index-tracking exchange-traded funds.“This is probably a year for stock pickers,” he said. “It’s not a year for E.T.F.s.”He would emphasize domestic stocks and limit exposure to emerging markets, which may suffer from soft commodity prices, and to Europe, which is dealing with thorny issues like Brexit and Italy’s recalcitrance in reining in government spending. The aging population bodes ill for long-term growth in Europe, too, Mr. Yardeni said, something that also applies in China.He favors industries like technology, communications and media, which he expects to benefit over the long haul from the impending introduction of 5G, the fifth generation of mobile communications technology. Big banks and health care companies should do well, too, he said.With investors focused on what’s going wrong, Mr. Kane recommends that they also keep in mind what’s going right, in particular the strong job market, although he noted that employment is often the last indicator to deteriorate as the economic cycle turns.“If that part of the economy holds up, then this may not be a recession,” he said. “You could get a very nice return for stocks if that turns out to be the environment.” But he acknowledged that it’s a big if.A crucial question for him is whether the decline will be fairly mild by the time it’s over, or something more severe, as in the 2008 financial crisis. For all the talk of recession, the losses so far have appeared calm and orderly, suggesting to him that too few investors have been asking the same question.“Whether it’s a garden-variety or end-of-days bear market,” he said, “there’s going to be panic, and we haven’t gotten quite there yet.”Good Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A thaw in trade talks with China? The market sure hopes soA report from the WSJ on Thursday said that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin had suggested ending some or all tariffs against China, lifting global stocks even after his agency stressed that trade talks were far from complete.Mr. Mnuchin said that easing the penalties would encourage China to make longer-term concessions while calming jittery markets, according to the report, which cited anonymous sources.The Treasury Department later said that officials had made no recommendations on tariffs.China’s trade czar, Liu He, is scheduled to participate in negotiations in Washington on Jan. 30. After March 1, tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods are set to grow to 25 percent from 10 percent.In other China news:• China’s ambassador to Canada warned of “repercussions” if the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei were blocked from Canada’s 5G network. Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, was arrested last month in Vancouver, British Columbia, and the company has also faced resistance and suspicion from Germany, the U.S. and other Western countries.• Foreign investors such as Blackstone Group spent a record $9 billion on commercial real estate in China last year.• Chinese tech companies, stressed by trade tensions, stricter policing of online content and a slowing domestic economy, cut hiring ads 20 percent in the last quarter of 2018.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Paramount, lurching toward irrelevancy, hopes for a turnaroundAfter decades of mismanagement, Paramount Pictures, the once-vaunted studio behind classic films like “The Godfather” and “Chinatown,” is fighting for its existence, write Amy Chozick and Brooks Barnes.The challenge: The studio racked up nearly $900 million in losses in the last two years. It has placed last at the domestic box office for seven years running. It shed its lucrative TV business years ago. And the Paramount lot is long overdue for improvements.The competition: The old-line film business is going to become tougher as streaming services proliferate. Netflix will pump out about 90 movies this year. Apple intends to roll out its multibillion-dollar TV and movie offering, and Facebook has become serious about its Watch video-on-demand platform.The solution: Paramount restarted television production in 2013 and now has nine series running, including “Jack Ryan” on Amazon Prime. It hired one of Hollywood’s top producers, Wyck Godfrey, as president of the film division. And it hopes to make 17 movies in 2020, with a focus on big budgets and global audiences.Playground brawls on Capitol HillOn the 28th day of the government shutdown, Washington feels like “an unruly sandbox,” where “septuagenarian politicians are squabbling like 7-year-olds,” writes Mark Landler.Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who had pressed President Trump to postpone his State of the Union address, received his sarcasm-laced response on Thursday.Without mentioning the speech, the president said he was canceling a secret trip for Ms. Pelosi and other members of Congress to meet with NATO officials in Brussels and visit American troops in Afghanistan. She was expected to depart Thursday on a military aircraft; Mr. Trump said she could fly commercial, “obviously.”Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, was not amused. He said in a statement:“One sophomoric response does not deserve another.”President Trump also canceled a U.S. delegation set to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. But Melania Trump, the first lady, kept her plans to fly on a military jet to the family’s Mar-a-Lago compound in Florida.The stalemate over Homeland Security spending has grown increasingly bitter. Democrats suggested they would introduce their own proposals for protecting the country’s borders.Meanwhile, tens of thousands of federal employees have sought unemployment benefits, with more filing claims every week.PG&E bankruptcy could hurt its solar-power suppliersPacific Gas and Electric promised that its customers’ lights would stay on if it followed through on plans to file for bankruptcy this month. But a filing could be wrenching for power producers, especially those in renewable resources, write Ivan Penn and Peter Eavis.PG&E said that it would use bankruptcy protection to resolve huge liabilities arising from deadly wildfires in California. Such a move would allow it to walk away from older contracts with suppliers, particularly those with developers of renewable energy that were negotiated when solar panel prices were higher.Credit Suisse analysts estimate that PG&E could save $2.2 billion a year by renegotiating renewable power contracts down to current market prices.More news: The prospective bankruptcy has exposed the risks of green-power investments: If the utility can renegotiate high-cost contracts, other companies will do the same. Fitch Ratings said the planned bankruptcy would not damage California’s credit rating.Rihanna: pop star, actress, entrepreneur … luxury fashion brand?She was named fashion icon of the year by the Council of Fashion Designers of America in 2014. She became Dior’s first black brand ambassador in 2015. Her Fenty Beauty cosmetics line is intensely popular; her Fenty x Savage lingerie collection debuted to great acclaim at New York Fashion Week.It looks like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the parent company of Dior, Givenchy and Fendi, could do worse than partnering with Robyn Rihanna Fenty.The luxury conglomerate is working on a deal that would make Rihanna its first female designer of color. The partnership would build a brand from scratch in a way the company hasn’t tried since starting the Christian Lacroix label in 1987, according to anonymous sources.The deal would be “a turning point in both fashion and fame,” writes Vanessa Friedman, who calls it:“The clearest expression yet of how celebrity, social media and influencers have redefined the power balance between culture and consumption, changing the way brands of all kinds relate to their audience.”Wall Street is nervous about luxury spending, however, as stock market declines in recent months could compel consumers to scale back purchases, according to an analysis from Goldman Sachs.Revolving doorNews Corporation said that Jesse Angelo was stepping down as publisher and chief executive at The New York Post. He is to be replaced by Sean Giancola, The Post’s chief revenue officer. (NYT)Justin Dearborn, the chief executive of Tribune Publishing, will be succeeded by the newspaper company’s president, Tim Knight. (Bloomberg)Adrian Croxson, head of European equities for the hedge fund Och-Ziff, is leaving the firm after a difficult period of performance. (FT)The speed readDeals • Sears’s creditors oppose the retailer’s proposed sale to Edward Lampert, and are seeking to sue him for the “excruciating, slow-motion destruction” of the company. (WSJ)• Alstom warned that European regulators could block its planned merger with Siemens. (Bloomberg)• Maoyan Entertainment, the biggest online movie ticketing platform in China, is seeking to raise as much as $345 million in an initial public offering. (Bloomberg)Tech • Tesla said it would cut its work force about 7 percent, citing difficulties in making affordable electric cars for the mass market. (NYT)• Netflix said its first-quarter revenue would miss Wall Street estimates, sending its shares down in after-hours trading. (Reuters)• Google is spending $40 million to acquire smartwatch technology from Fossil. (CNBC)• Facebook removed nearly 500 pages and accounts targeted at Eastern Europe and Central Asia, saying they were disinformation campaigns originating from Russia. (NYT)Politics and policy • Michael Cohen hired a small tech firm try to rig online polls in Donald Trump’s favor before the presidential campaign, and then allegedly stiffed the owner. (WSJ)• The law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom will pay the government $4.6 million to settle an investigation into its work in Ukraine with Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants Wells Fargo kicked off college campuses, saying the bank charged “struggling college students exorbitant fees.” (Bloomberg)Best of the rest • Leslie Moonves plans to fight for the $120 million severance payment that CBS denied him. T (NYT)• “Humility,” “ethics” and “simplicity” are not words usually associated with investment titans, but they surfaced constantly in descriptions of Vanguard’s John Bogle. (NYT)• A tower rises at Hudson Yards amid an epic test of wills between Stephen Ross, a powerful developer, and New York’s mightiest construction union. (FT)• The Rhine, a crucial commercial artery in Europe for moving coal, food and thousands of other goods, is running dry because of climate change. (Bloomberg)• A vestige of corporate culture in Asia, where men openly drink with colleagues or clients alongside paid female escorts, persists in the #MeToo movement. (Bloomberg)• Americans, especially millennials, are scaling back their alcohol intake. (WSJ)• Popular definitions for “bear markets” aren’t scientifically based, the economist Robert Shiller says, yet they can contribute to downward spirals. (NYT)• Fine wine is targeted by fake wine-buying companies in a familiar investment fraud. (FT)• As part of the U.S. government’s investigation into Volkswagen’s diesel emissions cheating scandal, a grand jury in Detroit indicted four managers at the company’s luxury Audi unit. (Reuters)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Billions have been flowing into a corner of the tech industry focused on the housing market. And now there are start-ups to help landlords manage properties, or homeowners manage sales, or tenants manage their packages.But hardly any of it touches the central problem of housing: For many people, it costs too much.“None of that investment, nor the solutions that those companies are offering, will fundamentally change the dynamic of the housing market in a way that increases housing affordability,” said Matt Hoffman, the vice president for innovation at the national housing nonprofit Enterprise Community Partners, surveying what venture capitalists have come to call “proptech.”Policymakers warn that the housing crisis isn’t a problem technology can solve. Yet it’s intriguing to think what might happen if investors threw money more directly at this goal.Mr. Hoffman believes that the right ideas could help change the market. And so Enterprise recently began to invest in early-stage tech start-ups itself.Clara Brenner, a managing partner at a venture capital firm, the Urban Innovation Fund, hears weekly from people hoping she will do the same: When are you going to invest in a company, they ask her, that will solve the housing crisis or the homeless problem?“This looking for a tech solution — I understand why people want it,” Ms. Brenner said. But she doesn’t believe it exists. The housing crisis is a policy problem, she says, one that Nimbyism, zoning laws, land use restrictions and tax policies have made worse. She fears that the dream of a tech fix will distract voters and politicians from those culprits.“They’re waiting for some tech company to come in and sweep up this mess,” she said, “when in fact this is all of our messes, and we’re going to have to deal with it.”The existing start-ups that have attracted the most attention for their potential to improve affordability are the ones trying to revive the decades-old dream of prefab construction. The California company Katerra has been valued at more than $4 billion by investors, who see potential in wringing efficiencies from a construction industry that has had few productivity gains in decades.The Seattle-based Blokable began delivering its first stackable units last year. And Factory OS, founded by a developer of affordable housing, is now producing housing in a factory in Vallejo, Calif.“I definitely think innovation in how we build has a significant role to getting to affordability,” said Carol Galante, the faculty director of the Terner Center for Housing Innovation at the University of California, Berkeley. “I can see it coming. I see it happening.”It now costs as much as $500,000 per unit to build low-income housing in the most expensive markets. Savings in the cost of construction could help developers of such housing stretch subsidies further. Cheaper construction could also change the math in markets where developers say it’s also not profitable to build middle-class housing.But Mr. Hoffman is skeptical that construction tech can fundamentally change affordability; market-rate developers have no incentive to pass those savings on to renters or home buyers, he said. And he shrugs at 3D-printed houses. “Where am I going to put those houses?” he said, nodding to the policy problems. “How long is it going to take me to find the land, get through the local zoning, the neighborhood planning process?”Enterprise is looking instead for companies that could affect how we consume, finance and regulate housing. Perhaps they could enable models between renting and ownership, or squeeze new supply out of the housing that already exists. This month, Enterprise teamed up with a New York-based venture capital firm, MetaProp, to pick and co-invest in companies (MetaProp’s tagline: Location. Location. Innovation.).Together they’re looking not for feel-good stories, but for viable businesses that could grow at Silicon Valley speed. Those companies may not even have creating affordability as their goal. But if that winds up being a result, Enterprise will be content.“We believe that for-profit, fast-growing businesses — and we could be wrong about this — are going to have the biggest impact on this huge problem the fastest,” said Leila Collins, a senior associate at MetaProp. “I don’t have a lot of faith that there will be some huge policy change in the next three years that will make housing affordable in cities.”Point Digital Finance, one company Enterprise has already invested in, helps homeowners tap the equity in their homes in exchange for a share of the property’s future appreciation. That service could help homeowners pay for constructing an accessory dwelling unit, like a backyard in-law cottage. Housing experts say such small-scale units could add to the lower-cost rental stock, but traditional lenders often won’t finance them.Housing is an exceptionally knotty problem, even if any one strand of it — making construction more efficient, or equity more accessible, or markets more transparent — sounds straightforward.That has become clear with a Portland start-up originally called NoAppFee. Tyrone Poole started the company after his own eviction and stint of homelessness, caused by medical debt. Though an aid group gave him a year’s worth of rental assistance, his eviction record meant he had trouble finding a landlord to accept it. And he kept spending money on application fees each time a landlord rejected him.Mr. Poole’s first idea was to conduct background checks for renters, and filter results to show them only the units that would accept them in view of credit, income, eviction or criminal histories. He hoped this would help reduce homelessness, and built the tool into a for-profit business providing the same service to wealthier tenants and more upscale landlords.But he discovered that people kept applying for units they weren’t qualified for anyway. The right matches on the platform were in the wrong neighborhood, or the wrong size. Most often, people kept applying to homes where their incomes were too low to qualify.Now the company, renamed OneApp Oregon, is preparing more ambitious tools aimed at a different problem: Incomes are too low. Soon it will offer a co-signing service for tenants whose incomes don’t qualify, and a service matching tenants so that together their incomes would be enough.“We’re using software instead of development to create housing,” Mr. Poole said. Not actual new housing, but housing that’s newly accessible to people.Even in that, software can’t solve the fundamental problem created in the gap between stagnating incomes and rising housing costs. Mr. Poole will be able to help a renter spending half his income on housing secure that housing. But he can’t change the reality that housing costs that much.These larger forces shaping the market are beyond even what a $4 billion construction start-up can disrupt, or what a national nonprofit like Enterprise can bend. Pull a thread in the housing market, and it leads to the decline of good working-class jobs, or the federal government’s long-term retreat from housing, or the fundamental tension that Americans want housing to be both affordable and a good investment. It’s notable this month that as both Microsoft and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative pledged major new housing investments, neither proposed spending its money on tech fixes. Both announced investment funds to help affordable housing developers. And both plan to push for local policies that would make it easier to expand housing.That may be the most realistic route for tech start-ups to reshape the market.“I don’t blame them for not being able to solve the root cause,” said Molly Turner, who lectures on urban innovation at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business. “If anything, I hope they make a ton of money and get a lot of clout, and then help advocate for the policy changes that we need.”The stock market’s strong start to the year stalled on Tuesday, amid growing pessimism about the prospects for a deal to defuse trade tensions between China and the United States.The S&P 500, which had enjoyed its best start to a year since 1987 through the end of trading on Friday, ended Tuesday down 1.4 percent, the market’s second-worst loss of the year.Stocks slumped from the outset, and the selling worsened through the day after The Financial Times reported that the Trump administration had rejected an offer from China to hold preparatory talks ahead of high-level trade meetings in Washington later this month.Such advance discussions are thought to be an important step toward cementing an agreement between the world’s two largest economies before March 1. After that date, tariffs on some $200 billion of Chinese goods are scheduled to rise sharply, which would send the trade war into a new and more serious phase.Trade-sensitive tech and industrial shares were the worst performers. Microsoft, Facebook and Google’s parent company, Alphabet, all slumped. Semiconductor makers — much of whose revenue comes from sales in China — tumbled, with Nvidia and Micron dropping more than 5 percent.The major industrial exporters Caterpillar and Boeing fell 3.2 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.The tone from industrial firms that reported earnings on Tuesday did little to improve the mood. Shares of the tool manufacturer Stanley Black & Decker tumbled more than 15 percent after the company offered a disappointing outlook for 2019.“We tried to make it very clear that the economic backdrop is one of slowing growth,” James M. Loree, chief executive of Stanley Black & Decker, said on a conference call with analysts.The trade war seems to be a growing source of weakness for the global economy. On Monday, China reported that its economy grew at its slowest rate, 6.6 percent, since 1990, amid a slowdown of its export sector.The report came the same day as the International Monetary Fund trimmed its forecast for global growth in 2019 to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent, citing, in part, slowing worldwide trade.SAN FRANCISCO — When Logan Green, chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, was asked which tech leaders he admired, he pointed to three men who had built their companies ruthlessly: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos.“A lot of other Silicon Valley companies are very scared to get their hands dirty with operations,” Mr. Green said in a 2017 interview with The New York Times, adding that he wanted to emulate the take-no-prisoners methods of Mr. Musk, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Bezos.The problem for Mr. Green is that Lyft seems very nice. Its app is pink. Its cars were once adorned with fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches. Its drivers have a reputation for being friendly. And while Lyft has racked up more than one billion rides and become a strong No. 2 to Uber in the United States and Canada, it has not shaken off its cuddly image.Now Mr. Green, 35, must show that Lyft can be as assertive as an Amazon or a Facebook. He and Uber are locked in a race to take their companies public: Both filed papers in December to list on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings — the first for any ride-hailing firm — are likely to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley and set the stage for listings of other highly valued tech start-ups, including Slack and Pinterest.The pressure is on Mr. Green to get the jump on Uber. (Both offerings have been stalled because the government shutdown, which ended Friday, prevented the Securities and Exchange Commission from reviewing their filings.) Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.For Mr. Green, this means he may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role. While Lyft’s more gregarious president, John Zimmer, his No. 2 for the last 12 years, has frequently handled the public-facing side of the business, Mr. Green would rather speak at staff meetings than at tech conferences. Colleagues describe him as reserved.In a 2017 interview, Mr. Zimmer said Mr. Green was often misunderstood because of his quiet demeanor. “He is, like, extremely competitive,” Mr. Zimmer, now 34, said. “He has been an activist.”Lyft declined to make Mr. Green or Mr. Zimmer available for new interviews, citing the quiet period before an initial public offering. In a statement, the chief operating officer, Jon McNeill, described them as “cutthroat missionaries in service of creating positive change.”One of the tech leaders Mr. Green cited as inspiration, Mr. Musk, recommended against taking Lyft public.“The current system makes long-term value creation and product innovation difficult,” Mr. Musk, chief executive of Tesla, wrote in an email last week. “It insists on quarter-by-quarter results or punishes companies severely. This is particularly bad for companies that are high growth and are valued on potential, like Lyft (or Tesla).” (The S.E.C. fined Mr. Musk  last year for a tweet about taking Tesla private.)Mr. Green, who was born and raised in Culver City, Calif., graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2006 with a degree in business economics. He then worked as the university’s sustainability coordinator, poring over alternatives to the gas-guzzling one-car-per-owner model. He was also on the board of the Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit District, a position that gave him insight into municipal transportation.While visiting Zimbabwe on vacation during his 20s, Mr. Green said in the 2017 interview, he was inspired by Zimbabweans who had created makeshift services to fill every seat in car pools, saving passengers money and taking cars off the road.So in 2007, Mr. Green started Zimride in Santa Barbara, Calif., to provide long-distance car-pool rides to college students by matching them with other students who were driving.Mr. Zimmer, then working at Lehman Brothers, noticed posts about the start-up on Facebook from John Siegel, whom he had met while studying abroad and who had attended middle school with Mr. Green.“John didn’t have this technical or programming background, but he was this really impressive guy,” Mr. Siegel said. “I thought they could work together well.”Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who remained in New York, embarked on what Mr. Zimmer called a “long-distance relationship,” working together over Skype. In 2008, they moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Palo Alto, Calif. Neither drew a salary in the first three years of building Zimride, and each contract they sold to a college was celebrated with a trip to Ikea for Swedish meatballs, Mr. Zimmer said.In 2011, Zimride raised $6 million. But as a web service, it was caught flat-footed by the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. In 2012, Mr. Green decided to spin out of Zimride a mobile, peer-to-peer ride-hailing service, calling it Lyft.Instead of just pairing students for long-distance rides, Lyft would put drivers together with riders on public streets, in real time. Mr. Zimmer came up with the idea to emblazon the cars with pink mustaches; Mr. Green encouraged passengers to greet their drivers with a fist bump, to keep the community feeling of Zimride.At the time, ride-hailing wasn’t legal, and only licensed drivers could pick up passengers on public streets. Ann Miura-Ko, a partner at the venture capital firm Floodgate, who had invested in Zimride and sits on Lyft’s board, recalled that some board members had been doubtful about the change — but that Mr. Green had been confident.“Someone asked, ‘Will this really work?’ And he wasn’t just sure, he was positive,” she said.But Mr. Green didn’t reckon with one issue: Uber. At the time, Uber, run by Travis Kalanick, had positioned itself as a luxury service for the wealthy that used only licensed drivers, unlike Lyft’s lower-cost service. In 2013, Uber published a white paper outlining the risks of peer-to-peer ride-hailing, a way to elbow Lyft out of the market.“They were trying to get the whole category shut down behind the scenes,” Mr. Green said. “They didn’t want competition.”Uber officials met with California regulators about the matter. As for Mr. Green, several current and former regulators and lawmakers who oversee ride-sharing in California said they had never worked with him, because Mr. Zimmer was often the one who communicated with officials.“Truth be told, I’ve never heard of him,” said Aaron Peskin, a San Francisco supervisor who called for crackdowns on Uber and Lyft in their early years and negotiated a new per-ride tax with Uber and Lyft last summer.Mr. Kalanick eventually moved Uber into non-luxury ride-sharing with no licensed drivers, the same as Lyft. He and Mr. Green quickly became bitter rivals. When Mr. Green was set to introduce Lyft’s car-pooling product in 2014, Uber announced the same service first.That same year, Uber considered buying Lyft. Over dinner at Mr. Kalanick’s home in San Francisco, the Uber chief laughed at Mr. Zimmer’s high asking price. No deal was struck.An Uber spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Kalanick didn’t return a request for comment.While Mr. Kalanick went on to raise billions of dollars in funding for Uber, Mr. Green relied on Mr. Zimmer’s Wall Street knowledge and showman personality to garner investments from venture capitalists and others. In total, Lyft has raised close to $5.1 billion, compared with Uber’s roughly $14 billion in equity.In 2017, Mr. Kalanick was ousted from Uber after a series of scandals. Mr. Green seized the moment, billing Lyft as a kinder, gentler network. Ridership surged, with Lyft taking a share of up to 35 percent in some American cities.More recently, Lyft has ventured into self-driving cars, offering autonomous rides in Las Vegas. It also acquired Motivate, the largest bike-share operator in the United States, giving Lyft a dominant position in an emerging transportation market.In the 2017 interview, Mr. Green said he was far from done.“As an entrepreneur, you always kind of want what you’re pitching to sound somewhat off the wall,” he said. “You’re trying to pitch the future that doesn’t exist, and you want it to be — it needs to be — a little bit of a stretch.”Good Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks in peril?Negotiations between Washington and Beijing seemed to be in a precarious place on Tuesday, after the FT reported that the Trump administration had canceled meetings with Chinese vice ministers.The officials had offered to come to Washington to prepare for meetings scheduled later this month between China’s trade czar, Liu He, and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, the FT said.Larry Kudlow, the head of the National Economic Council, denied the report to CNBC. He added that negotiations would only be successful if the Chinese honored their commitments:“Promises are great but enforcement is what we want — things like deadlines and timetables and full coverage of the various structural issues. Will this all be solved at the end of the month? I don’t know. I wouldn’t dare to predict.”China may agree to buy up to seven million tons of American wheat. But Chinese officials are reportedly chafing at U.S. requests for regular reviews of changes to their trade policies. And two influential American business groups still see reason to be unhappy, saying China is engaged in “a deep, concerted and continuing effort” to establish dominance in technologies such as robotics and electric vehicles.Beijing is also trying to play down Belt and Road, its vast infrastructure initiative spanning Asia, Europe and Africa: Senior government officials have avoided the topic at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the NYT reports.The effects of trade tensions continue to spread. The stock market started the year strong but sputtered on Tuesday. Japan’s exports last month sank the most in more than two years. Chinese finance officials promised more stimulus. Experts are predicting that “the good times are over” for American companies reliant on Chinese consumers.But not everyone is complaining: Lobbyists have enjoyed a surge of business from companies and trade groups hoping to influence the Trump administration’s tariff decisions. Indonesia’s doing all right, too: Its industry minister says it’s exporting more steel to the U.S. and also attracting Chinese textile and footwear companies.Other Chinese news: The founder of a Nanjing-based meat supplier, one of several Chinese executives at Hong Kong-listed companies who have mysteriously disappeared in recent years, returned to his family. Several Chinese companies are circling Japan’s largest operator of oyster restaurants.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________On Day 33 of the shutdown, some movementThe Senate descended from the spectator stands to plan two competing votes to fund the government on Thursday. One involves President Trump’s latest proposal: $5.7 billion for a border wall, now accompanied by temporary protections for certain immigrants. The other, from the Democrats, would open the government until Feb. 8.But neither is expected to draw the 60 votes needed to advance. This means that the Trump administration is likely to continue as a one-ring circus, focused on the wall to the exclusion of other presidential duties.Here are ways the shutdown is still straining the system:• Reserve security workers are being flown into airports, because as many as one in 10 transportation security officers are failing to show up for work.• Delays in reports about home sales, construction, trade and manufacturing threaten to create a data vacuum, just as the economy may be slowing down.• SNAP food stamps help feed some 40 million Americans. The Agriculture Department is still considering how to keep the program running after February.• The U.S. court system will need to close after Feb. 1 if the stalemate continues.And a sidelight on the wall proposal: Details disclosed at the trial of the drug lord known as El Chapo suggests it wouldn’t have inconvenienced him very much.A brave front in Davos masks fears of global downturnAnalysts and bankers at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, offered a glass-half-full attitude toward the global economy, saying it was weakening but not entering a recession. “We’re slowing, but we’re still growing,” said Philipp Hildebrand, vice chairman of the investment manager BlackRock.But behind the brave face, concerns of political paralysis, frayed trading partnerships and working-class resentment created a nervous atmosphere.Another theme was the growing discomfort with corporate influence over society. Nowhere was this tension greater than in the conversation around Big Tech. Optimism in official sessions appeared to be out of touch with the public’s concern about the technology’s disruptive effects on privacy and politics.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, made a surprise appearance and was seen with Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of Armenia. But talk was dominated by who wasn’t there, most notably President Trump.Instead, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil has been present to take up the populist mantle, the NYT’s Mark Landler writes, promising to root out corruption, roll back regulations and make his country a good place to do business:Mr. Bolsonaro’s keynote address set the tone for a Davos gathering shorn of its usual retinue of American and European leaders, wrestling with political forces, from Latin America to Europe, that are starkly at odds with this conference’s ethos of global cooperation and a liberal world order.Singapore: a haven for Brexit runaways?Dyson, the British appliances company founded by a vocal supporter of Brexit, swears that its decision to move to Singapore is not a reaction to Britain’s planned departure from the E.U.But with one proposed exit plan summarily rejected and the prospect of a delayed divorce, the temptation to jump ship to calmer, more business-friendly waters is growing.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, has asked for a parliamentary vote on whether to hold a second referendum on Brexit.Brexit could hit European consumers hard, Kasper Rorsted, the chief executive of the German sportswear maker Adidas, told CNBC. And the E.U. says trade rules would require a “hard border” between Ireland and British-controlled Northern Ireland if Britain leaves without a deal.Germany and France are still keen to show their commitment to a united Europe: Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron met on Tuesday to renew a 1963 treaty on the subject.Koch Industries backs metal-printing start-upDesktop Metal announced today that it had closed a $160 million funding round to expand the production of its office-friendly metal 3D-printing technology.The funding round was led by Koch Disruptive Technologies, the investing and innovation arm of Koch Industries, and brings Desktop Metal’s total investment to $438 million. In a news release, the company declared this to be the moment when 3D printing begins to disrupt traditional metal manufacturing.“We are at a critical juncture in the advancement of metal 3D printing and additive manufacturing,” said Ric Fulop, a co-founder and the chief executive of Desktop Metal, which is based in Burlington, Mass.The production system is the fastest metal printing press for mass production, the company said, and will begin shipping commercially in the first quarter of 2019.Revolving doorJustin Gmelich, chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs and one of the most senior executives in the bank’s fixed income business, is retiring. (FT)Bunge, the world’s largest oilseed processor, appointed Gregory Heckman acting chief executive, replacing Soren Schroder, who agreed to leave in December. (FT)The speed readDeals• Two activist hedge funds are calling on eBay to consider spinning off or selling StubHub and a classified-ad businesses. (WSJ)• Arconic said it would not sell itself to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management. (WSJ)• In its most significant move into streaming, the cable giant Viacom is paying $340 million for PlutoTV, an advertising-based service. (NYT)• Shares of PG&E surged after it said it had secured $5.5 billion in financing as it prepares to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (Reuters)• BAE Systems won a $474 million U.S. defense contract, the Pentagon said. (Reuters)Tech • The former Soviet republic of Georgia has been offering tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to lure cryptocurrency businesses. (NYT)• Tencent, the Chinese tech company, lost a third of its value last year. (FT)• IBM said its revenue fell 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter, better than analysts expected but still a sign of challenges ahead. (WSJ)• Japan Display, a supplier for Apple’s iPhone XR, is seeking a bailout from an investor group from China and Taiwan. (WSJ)• Silicon Valley start-ups and their investors fear the days of unchecked growth may be over. (WSJ)• Google and Facebook spent record amounts on lobbying governments last year. (Reuters)Politics and policy • President Trump has turned out to be the one thing that Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, can’t control. (NYT)• Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said he expected further progress in North Korea denuclearization talks, but acknowledged “an awful lot of work to do.” (Reuters)• The Supreme Court permitted the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while courts review the policy. (NYT)Best of the rest • 23andMe, the DNA testing company, said it had received regulatory approval to offer a test for a hereditary colorectal cancer syndrome. (Bloomberg)• How companies game their ratings on Glassdoor, a site that lets people review their employers. (WSJ)• Carl Rogberg, a former senior director of the supermarket chain Tesco, was acquitted today of fraud and false accounting charges. (Reuters)• Walgreens will pay $269.2 million to settle accusations that it improperly billed Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs for more than a decade. (Reuters)• McKinsey has been repeatedly accused of misconduct in bankruptcy cases, most recently in a case that could cost it tens of millions of dollars in returned fees. (NYT)• Home sales fell last month to their lowest level since 2015, pressured by stock market volatility, the government shutdown and higher interest rates. (WSJ)• BlackRock is planning a money-market fund that will invest primarily in debt from environmentally conscious issuers. (Reuters)• A spate of quarterly earnings this week from industrial and technology companies could disrupt the relative calm in the stock market. (WSJ)• Construction is set to start on a $500 billion futuristic city in Saudi Arabia’s Neom Bay, financed by the government, its sovereign wealth fund and local and international investors. (Bloomberg)• Production at Subaru’s only car factory in Japan could be shut down for nearly two weeks to fix a suspected defect in a single part. (Reuters)• Eric Salama, the chief executive of the marketing firm Kantar, is recovering after being stabbed in an attempted carjacking in London. (Bloomberg)• The cost of insulin for treating type 1 diabetes nearly doubled over five years in the U.S. (Reuters)• The Labor Department accused Oracle of wage discrimination by funneling women and minorities into lower-paying roles and setting their initial pay based on prior salary. (CNBC)• The Federal Reserve is beginning to examine how Deutsche Bank handled billions of dollars in suspect transactions from Denmark’s leading lender. (Bloomberg)• To survive a pilot shortage, airlines are doubling starting salaries and recruiting from military helicopter crews. (Reuters)• The pharmaceutical industry’s main trade group spent a record $27.5 million on lobbying last year. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Good Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks: Still far from a resolutionHigh-level delegates from Beijing and Washington are meeting near the White House today for the first of two days of trade talks, but appear to have a great distance left to bridge.Each government has reason to play nice. Evidence is mounting that reciprocal tariffs are hurting both sides, and global markets have been skittish while awaiting a deal.But there are signs that China is unwilling to bend on key U.S. demands involving intellectual property and technology transfer, even as its lawmakers accelerated a vote on legislation addressing foreign investors’ concerns.A pair of indictments revealed earlier this week against the Chinese telecommunications firm Huawei could complicate the discussions, as could disagreements over strategy within the Trump administration’s team.Other factors include:Weakness in the Chinese economy. At least 20 companies reported yesterday that their 2018 earnings would fall short of expectations. The Chongqing Changan Automobile Company, Ford Motor’s primary partner in China, warned of a profit slump  of as much as 93 percent last year. China Life Insurance said its net income may have fallen as much as 70 percent. And Chinese exporters suffered a sluggish start to 2019.Slowing Chinese investment abroad. Net purchases of U.S. commercial real estate by Chinese companies — big buyers earlier in the decade — have slipped to their lowest level since 2012.Worries to the west. The motorcycle maker Harley-Davidson said that tariffs — along with other shifts in its business — left it barely breaking even in the final quarter of 2018. In the European Union, there are concerns whatever happens: If China and the U.S. reach a deal, Mr. Trump might turn his attention to German cars and French wines. If not, China might dump discounted goods into the European market. “We are next in the queue,” said William De Vijlder, the chief economist at BNP Paribas.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Diverging views on the economyThe Trump administration’s growth forecast is much rosier than those of economists at the Federal Reserve and elsewhere, who warn that growth is slowing and put some of the blame on the government, writes the NYT’s Jim Tankersley.President Trump’s team has predicted that inflation-adjusted growth will average 3 percent through 2024. Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said Mr. Trump’s tax and trade policies were working as expected:“Last year looked just like we thought, so we don’t think, going into our next forecast, that there’s a heck of a lot of reason to change our mind about things.”An exceptional year: Growth appears to have exceeded 3 percent in 2018, the first time it has done so in a decade. But many economists attribute that to a burst of fiscal stimulus that isn’t expected to be repeated.Growing consensus: The Congressional Budget Office predicted that growth would slow to 2.3 percent this year and then to 1.7 percent in 2020. Economists at the Fed also forecast 2.3 percent growth this year. Some corporate financial executives are bracing for a recession.More Fed news: Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, has taken a conversational tone in public comments, but the markets didn’t understand. Investors face three outcomes if the Fed is done raising interest rates, and none of them are good.A difficult road for AppleApple reported yesterday that it had flat profit and lower revenue in the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season. After years of expansion, the tech giant appears to be entering a period of vulnerability, writes the NYT’s Jack Nicas.Diminishing demand: The company has had some success with new products like the Apple Watch, but they haven’t had the global impact of the iPhone. That was a drag on the company’s earnings.Slowdown in China: Apple is uniquely vulnerable to slowing consumer demand in China, as well as to potential tariffs on Chinese-made products.Security concerns: Customers said a flaw in the iPhone let people eavesdrop on phone calls. The problem was in the FaceTime app, which Apple promised to fix by the end of the week, but it has been criticized for moving too slowly. A lawyer in Houston sued Apple over the glitch.More Apple news: Shares rallied after the company outlined plans for life beyond the iPhone. And it plans to lower prices on some phones outside U.S. to offset a strong dollar.PG&E bankruptcy: What happens next?Pacific Gas and Electric filed for a corporate reorganization on Tuesday that “is shaping up to be one of the most complicated and difficult in recent years,” writes Ivan Penn.Facing tens of billions of dollars in claims related to 17 major wildfires in California in 2017, with its equipment under investigation in several other blazes last year, PG&E decided to declare bankruptcy despite having a stable income stream and several offers of financing.Now creditors and suppliers of the state’s largest utility will face off against California officials and fire victims to be paid, while renewable energy companies and climate change activists jockey for position. Lawyers, bankers and consultants are likely to collect hundreds of millions of dollars in fees.This is PG&E’s second bankruptcy in less than 20 years; the first came after California tried to deregulate utilities. Dan Reicher, who was an assistant energy secretary in the Clinton administration, called it “a real mess,” adding:“It comes down to lots of needs: Take care of the fire victims, keep the lights on, ensure progress on climate change and protect ratepayers. That’s at least a partial list.”Revolving doorRoger Lynch will step down as chief executive of Pandora, the company announced, after stockholders approved a $3.5 billion acquisition by SiriusXM. (Billboard)John Startin will join Evercore in April as a senior managing director in the advisory practice of its investment banking business, moving from Goldman Sachs. (Evercore)JPMorgan Chase has overhauled its deal-making team in London, switching its heads of mergers and acquisitions in the region. (Financial News)The speed readDeals • Pinterest is said to have hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to advise on an initial public offering. (FT)• The video game retailer GameStop has pulled the plug on plans to sell itself because of a lack of available financing for potential buyers. (FT)• Governments of Arab monarchies in the Gulf are engineering ways to stay competitive, prompting a wave of consolidations. (Bloomberg)• NIO, a Chinese electric-car maker, is seeking to raise $650 million through a five-year convertible bond. (Reuters)Tech • Under pressure from hedge fund investors, eBay, promised pay its first dividend in March, setting it at 14 cents. (WSJ)• India plans to tighten internet restrictions on foreign companies; Amazon, Facebook, Walmart and others have done well there. (WSJ)• Facebook paid users to install a “Facebook Research” app that spied on their phone and web activity, an investigation found. (TechCrunch)• Elon Musk’s corporate jet logged more than 250 flights over 150,000 miles in 2018, a year when he said Tesla was losing up to $100 million a week and teetering on the brink of collapse. (WaPo)• Amazon is trying hard to win back public favor around the site of its planned New York campus, sending out glossy fliers, funding computer science courses at local high schools, sharing Italian food and more. (NYT)• The tech industry has created start-ups that help landlords manage properties, homeowners manage sales and tenants manage their packages, but not much that makes housing more affordable. Here’s why. (NYT)Politics and policy• President Trump faces increasingly vocal disagreement from the Republican establishment over foreign policy issues, including from the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. (NYT)• Roger Stone, President Trump’s longtime adviser, pleaded not guilty to obstruction, witness tampering and making false statements in the special counsel investigation. (NYT)• Democrats in Congress are examining potential connections between Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, a billionaire Republican donor and a Russian oligarch whose companies recently escaped U.S. sanctions. (NYT)• David Malpass, the Treasury under secretary and a supporter of President Trump, is said to be a top contender for the World Bank presidency. (Bloomberg)• British lawmakers narrowly voted down a proposal that could have delayed Brexit, sparing Prime Minister Theresa May another defeat. (NYT)• The Trump administration gave control of Venezuela’s bank accounts and property in the U.S. to the opposition leader Juan Guaidó, as President Nicolás Maduro’s government reeled from American oil sanctions. (NYT)• The House Oversight Committee and the Senate Finance Committee held hearings on Tuesday about high prices for prescription drugs and insulin. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Société Générale plans to cut jobs at its investment bank after trading slumped. (Bloomberg)• A co-founder of the private equity firm Kainos Capital filed a suit claiming that her colleagues deprived her of an ownership stake. (WSJ)• AT&T wants to be a big player in entertainment, but its DirecTV service has become a drag on business. (WSJ)• A small stock exchange offers a peek at the profit larger competitors like the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq make from brokerage firms and banks. (WSJ)• Rather than manufacturing advanced displays at its $10 billion Wisconsin campus, Foxconn may make it a technology center staffed mostly by engineers and researchers. (Reuters)• Denmark’s financial regulator is proposing tough penalties to prevent a repeat of the Danske Bank money-laundering scandal. (FT)• A collection of 248 Supreme skateboard decks were sold at Sotheby’s to a Vancouver collector for a record $800,000. (CNBC)• Goat emojis are flooding Twitter, thanks to fans of Tom Brady. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Apple said on Tuesday that profits were flat and revenues were down in its most recent quarter, indicating a difficult road ahead for a company that five months ago became the first American firm to be valued above $1 trillion.The disappointing financial performance had been expected since Jan. 2, when Apple, for the first time in 16 years, revised its forecast for the quarter because of an economic slowdown in China and diminishing demand for new iPhones.Now, after years of expansion and record-setting profits, Apple appears to be entering a period of vulnerability. While it has had some success with new products like the Apple Watch, the company has not found another product with the global impact of the iPhone, which was introduced more than a decade ago. Apple is also uniquely vulnerable to slowing consumer demand in China, as well as potential tariffs on Chinese-made products.Apple’s stock price is down a third since its peak last summer, and now it is worth less than several of its longtime rivals in the tech industry.Apple could face more financial pressure if the Trump administration places tariffs on phones made in China — something President Trump has threatened to do. The bulk of Apple’s products are made in Chinese factories.There are also new concerns about a security flaw in the iPhone. On Monday, Apple customers said an iPhone user could call someone else who had an iPhone and listen in on that person’s conversations through the device’s microphone — even if the recipient did not answer the call. The problem was the result of a bug involving Apple’s FaceTime app. The company promised to have a fix by the end of the week.Apple’s total revenue for the quarter was $84.3 billion, a 5 percent drop from a year earlier and in line with the revised forecast earlier this month.Sales of iPhones, following a global trend for smartphones, have been leveling off for several years. Their revenue was $51.98 billion, a 15 percent drop from a year earlier. It’s harder now to offer more specifics on iPhone sales because Apple recently stopped disclosing how many units it sells each quarter.Luca Maestri, Apple’s chief financial officer, said in an interview that sales had slumped largely because current iPhone owners were waiting longer to upgrade their devices, a trend that has continued into the current quarter. He blamed fewer subsidies from wireless carriers, a strengthening United States dollar and cheaper battery upgrades that consumers have used to extend the lives of their old phones.Apple has attributed some of its issues in China to a trade war with the United States. And there is concern that some Chinese customers are shying away from Apple products out of national pride, particularly since the authorities in the United States brought charges against the Chinese telecom giant Huawei and its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou. Prosecutors cited a decade-long attempt to steal trade secrets, obstruct a criminal investigation and evade economic sanctions on Iran.“We did not foresee the magnitude of the economic deceleration, particularly in greater China,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said this month.But some data suggest Apple faces more fundamental problems with its business in China. Chinese consumers appear to be opting for less expensive but similar smartphones from Chinese makers, particularly Huawei. Some of Apple’s latest phones top $1,000, far above the typical cost for its Chinese competitors.Total sales in the region that includes China were down 25 percent in the fourth quarter to $13.17 billion. Outside China, revenues increased slightly.“We’ve actually seen the economic situation in China continue to deteriorate over the course of the quarter,” Mr. Maestri said. “From mid-November onwards, we’ve seen a deceleration of economic activity in China.”But he added that Apple had recovered some business by cutting prices in China for the iPhone XR, the lowest-priced new iPhone, to offset the strengthening dollar. Apple declined to disclose the exact size of the price cut.Mr. Cook said in a call with financial analysts that he believed the iPhone’s high price had hurt sales in emerging markets, and that Apple had dropped prices in a number of them.Apple made up for tepid iPhone sales in the quarter with 19 percent revenue growth in other areas. The wearables category, which includes the Apple Watch and AirPods headphones, led the way with a 33 percent increase to $7.3 billion.Apple’s earnings per share were $4.18 in the quarter, beating analysts’ expectations by a penny. Apple’s overall profit was down 0.5 percent to $19.97 billion.Apple’s struggles appear to be continuing. The company said it expected between $55 billion and $59 billion in revenue in the current quarter, below analysts’ expectations for $59 billion.Apple’s share price was up more than 5 percent in after-hours trading after its results were announced on Tuesday.Good Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Huawei and China’s role in 5GThe next generation of computer and phone networks, known as 5G, is expected to connect cities around the world and fuel a future run on robots, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence and other technologies.But it may also rely on an infrastructure vulnerable to hackers and spies, one that the U.S. wants to stop China from building.The Trump administration has conducted a campaign to pressure allies such as Britain, Poland and Germany to banish Chinese companies, especially the telecommunications giant Huawei, from participating in the 5G buildup, according to the NYT:The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.What’s next? President Trump is expected to issue an executive order prohibiting American companies from incorporating equipment originating from China in critical telecommunications networks, extending current rules that apply only to government entities. His administration, which has also waged a trade war with China, says that it is motivated by concern for national security, not just by competitive defensiveness. China’s economic czar, Liu He, will meet with the American trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, in Washington on Wednesday for two days of trade talks, which is likely to cover issues of cyberprotection and the proliferation of state-owned companies.What do officials think? Beijing’s ambassador to the E.U. threatened “serious consequences” if Huawei and other Chinese companies were excluded from 5G projects. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau fired the country’s ambassador to China after he said that a senior Huawei executive had “strong arguments” to fight extradition to the U.S.And businesses? Tech manufacturers are diversifying outside China as trade tensions fester and the country’s economy slows. Foxconn and Pegatron, two Taiwanese companies that assemble iPhones, are expanding production capacity in India and Vietnam. American industrial companies with exposure to China have said that their sales there are weakening. But Apple is unlikely to bring production closer to the U.S., where manufacturers struggle to “match China’s combination of scale, skills, infrastructure and cost,” according to the NYT.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Promotions at elite law firm stir diversity debateThe law firm Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But after the announcement of its new partner class, people across the industry began to comment that all of the faces were white, and that only one was a woman’s, the NYT’s Noam Scheiber and John Eligon write.Paul, Weiss has said that it regretted the “gender and racial imbalance” of its 2019 class. But the episode underscores how big law firms are still falling short when it comes to elevating women and people of color.Mr. Scheiber and Mr. Eligon interviewed more than 20 women and people of color who described obstacles to achieving diversity at Paul, Weiss. Many said that opportunities to be groomed for partner were harder to come by for women and minorities.“I fear that African-American partners in big law are becoming an endangered species,” said Theodore Wells, a black partner at Paul, Weiss and one of the country’s most prominent litigators.Howard Schultz lays groundwork for presidential bidThe former chief executive of Starbucks told Andrew yesterday that he was preparing to run for president in 2020 as an independent.Denouncing the “broken political system,” Mr. Schultz said he had already begun the groundwork to get on the ballot in all 50 states.Long-shot bid: Despite his considerable wealth, Mr. Schultz would face a difficult road. Few independent candidates have mounted significant challenges for the White House.Political jabs: In an interview with “60 Minutes,” Mr. Schultz said Donald Trump was “not qualified to be the president” and that lawmakers from both parties were engaged in “revenge politics.”Swift response: The announcement was condemned by top Democratic operatives, who said they were worried that Mr. Schultz would split votes in a general election.As Lyft’s I.P.O. nears, pressure grows on its C.E.O.Logan Green, the chief executive of Lyft, is known to be reserved, usually letting his second-in-command speak for their ride-sharing service. But now, he’s in a race with Uber to take the companies public, write the NYT’s Mike Isaac and Kate Conger.That means Mr. Green may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role.The back story: Both Lyft and Uber have filed regulatory papers to list their shares on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings are likely to create a bonanza in Silicon Valley.Why it matters: Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.Markets await earnings, Fed guidance and the jobs reportStocks sank at the end of last year on fears of an imminent recession, but those concerns have largely abated, with global markets now rallying at the fastest pace in months. But investors are still cautious ahead of a busy week.The next few days bring an onslaught of quarterly earnings reports from the likes of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Tesla — many of which are considered to be representative of the broader economy. The Federal Reserve is also holding policy meetings this week, which come after central banks in Europe and Japan sounded cautious notes. And on Friday, the monthly U.S. jobs report will be released.The world economy “is not in crisis,” writes Neil Irwin. But, he adds:What the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The work force is still aging. Productivity growth remains weak, as is consumer demand. Low interest rates could constrain central bankers trying to engineer an escape from a downturn. And a “nasty feedback loop” could result in more political dysfunction, leading to risks of economic disruption like the type posed by the recent government shutdown.Speaking of which: After a 35-day stalemate, the government is open again, much to the chagrin of some of President Trump’s conservative supporters. The 116th Congress will consider Democratic wage proposals in the house and a Middle East policy bill in the Senate. Lawmakers may also consider whether to ban future shutdowns entirely. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees heading back to work should receive back pay by the end of the week.Revolving doorYi Huiman, the chairman of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, will take over from Liu Shiyu as the party secretary and chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. (Reuters)Lance Milken, son of Michael Milken, has left the private equity group Apollo Global Managemen to set up a family office. (FT)Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer outside China, said Jean-Pierre Thomas had resigned as its chairman and director as part of a deal with the U.S. government to lift sanctions on the company and on other Russian firms linked to the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. (Reuters)The speed readDeals• The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federally chartered body, says a $1.7 billion funding gap should sink the efforts of the Sears chairman, Edward Lampert, to buy out the retail chain. The move makes the corporation the latest and most influential creditor to oppose the sale. (WSJ)• The chemical companies Versum Materials and Entegris are in advanced talks to combine into a single entity that makes products used in the semiconductor manufacturing process. (WSJ)• The engineering group Rolls-Royce is leading a consortium of companies that is said to have asked the British government for more than $260 million to build small nuclear reactors. (FT)• Saudi Aramco wants to increase its foothold in Asia’s oil industry by buying up to 19.9 percent of the South Korean refiner Hyundai Oilbank. (Reuters)• The Italian energy company Eni and its Austrian peer OMV will pay $5.8 billion for a stake in the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company’s refining business. (Reuters)Tech• Kik Interactive, a Canadian social-media start-up that sold $100 million in a digital token it called “kin,” plans to fight the S.E.C. over the agency’s regulation of cryptocurrencies. (WSJ)• All aboard the driverless train: American rail-freight operators are turning to automation to make railroads safer and more productive. (WSJ)• The struggles of bike-sharing start-ups lay bare the flaws of VC2C, or venture capital to consumer, a common tech investment strategy in China. In VC2C, companies raise funds, use them to subsidize consumers, and ramp up prices later. (FT)• Retailers have used robots to handle inventory in warehouses. Now, they’re testing whether robots can figure out when store shelves need to be restocked. (WSJ)Politics and policy• A sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers’ refund checks, and delay them, too. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren is trying to stand out in an increasingly crowded field of presidential candidates by focusing on policy minutiae. But she risks being seen as out-of-touch, too intellectual and offbeat. (NYT)• With less than nine weeks to go until Brexit, British businesses are setting up emergency teams to cope with possible upheaval as they press politicians to agree on an orderly exit plan from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Male managers said that they were nervous about mentoring female colleagues in the #MeToo era. (NYT)• The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing whether Nissan accurately reported executive pay. (NYT)• Signs that the government may move to privatize the mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sent shares soaring. (WSJ)• The Man Group hedge fund cut ties with the Booker Prize, saying it would dedicate donations to improving diversity in financial services instead. (FT)• U.S. manufacturers are taking a hit as Chinese demand for American goods weakens. (WSJ)• Workplace confidentiality rules in New Jersey are being challenged in court. (WSJ)• Qantas Airways customers are requesting exercise bikes and virtual reality devices to pass the time on 20-hour flights from Sydney to London. (Reuters)• Vale, the world’s largest iron ore miner, suspended dividends, buybacks and bonuses after a dam disaster in Brazil. (Reuters)• The two chief executives of Standard Life Aberdeen, Britain’s largest listed fund manager, made a case for joint leadership, a model unpopular with many investors and governance specialists. (FT)• The British supermarket chain Tesco is planning to cut thousands of jobs with the closing of meat, fish and delicatessen counters. (Guardian)• The U.S. Treasury Department is set to borrow $1 trillion for a second year to finance the deficit. (Bloomberg)• The English soccer club Arsenal announced plans to open several themed restaurants in China as part of a marketing push to reach fans there. (FT)• The European Commission is preparing to put Saudi Arabia on a list of countries that have failed to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Good Tuesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.U.S. charges Huawei with theft and sanctions evasionThe Justice Department partly unsealed a pair of indictments yesterday that accuse the Chinese telecommunications firm of trying to steal trade secrets, evade economic sanctions on Iran and obstruct a criminal investigation into its behavior.The context: The charges come as officials from Beijing and Washington prepare to continue trade negotiations and as the Trump administration tries to shoulder Huawei out of international efforts to build the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G. The company has denied the claims; a spokesman for China’s industry and information technology ministry called them “unfair and immoral.”The allegations: The U.S. says that Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer and the daughter of its founder, Ren Zhengfei, participated in a plot to defraud four large banks into clearing millions of dollars in transactions with Iran in violation of international sanctions. American officials say that Huawei tried to impede their investigation by destroying evidence and by moving employees out of the U.S. to prevent them from being called as witnesses. The company, prosecutors say, also stole information about a phone-testing robot called Tappy from T-Mobile facilities in Washington state and encouraged employees to steal other confidential information from competitors.What now: Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, said that the U.S. government wants to have Ms. Meng extradited from Canada, where she was detained last year at Washington’s request and where officials are now on tricky political turf trying to balance American and Chinese interests. The tussle has the industry on edge; an internal assessment from Deutsche Telekom concluded that the 5G rollout in Europe would be delayed by at least two years and cost billions of euros if governments banned Huawei, whose technology underpins much of the current network infrastructure.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Throwing a wrench into trade talks with ChinaThe Huawei charges will complicate negotiations on Wednesday that were already expected to be tense.A delegation of dozens of Chinese representatives led by Vice Premier Liu He will meet near the White House with a group headed by Robert Lighthizer, President Trump’s top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the treasury secretary. On Thursday, Mr. Liu is expected to meet with Mr. Trump.Mr. Mnuchin said there had been “significant movement” on talks that involved “very complicated issues,” including intellectual property protections and questions of enforcement. The Chinese may offer to increase their purchases of U.S. farm products and energy, and slightly change their industrial policies, while pushing back on demands to eliminate subsidies to favored industries.The parties have until early March to reach an agreement, or else risk an escalation in the trade conflict.Mr. Trump is being pressured by the markets and the corporate sector to deliver a deal. A recent survey found that his trade policies had led more than a third of American manufacturers to raise prices. Yesterday, the chip maker Nvidia and the bulldozer builder Caterpillar both issued warnings about business conditions in China.As Eswar Prasad, the former head of the International Monetary Fund’s China division, notes:“The damaging economic effects of the shutdown and Trump’s desire to score a cleaner win at least on trade could also make U.S. negotiators somewhat more flexible and willing to strike a deal.”The aftershocks of the shutdownThe five weeks when much of the government was out of commission cost the U.S. economy $11 billion, nearly a quarter of it permanently lost, the Congressional Budget Office said yesterday.That’s nearly double the $5.7 billion President Trump is seeking for a southern border wall — a project he still wants and is still threatening to shut down the government to get.The damage will be mitigated somewhat as furloughed workers start to receive their back pay, but with the government only funded for three weeks, many federal employees plan to hold off on spending.Here’s another wrinkle: Government statisticians just now returning to work are behind on collecting and analyzing figures on retail sales, manufacturing data, housing statistics and other information. Investors, executives and analysts nervous about signs of weakness in the economy are grasping for details about the labor market, inflation and business spending. And when the Federal Reserve’s policymaking group meets starting today, it will be missing some of its customary guides.Howard Schultz defends his plan to run as an independentHoward Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, told Andrew yesterday that he was not fazed by criticism that his potential presidential bid as an independent could strengthen President Trump’s chances for re-election.“Nobody wants to see Donald Trump removed from office more than me,” Mr. Schultz said at an event in a Barnes & Noble bookstore in New York to kick off his national book tour.Responding to critics: Mr. Trump said in an early morning tweet that Mr. Schultz did not have the “guts” to run, a taunt that Mr. Schultz called “childish.” Michael Bloomberg, another possible presidential contender, condemned independent bids.Hecklers in the crowd: “Don’t help elect Trump,” yelled one protester, who was escorted out of the event in New York. Mr. Schultz was interrupted a second time by a man who chanted, “Health care is a human right.”More: Bill Burton, a former adviser to President Barack Obama, pushed back against criticism over his decision to join Mr. Schultz’s team. And the harsh response on social media to a potential Schultz candidacy could affect the Starbucks brand, according to the Washington Post.Ghosn’s plight reveals a pattern in JapanCarlos Ghosn, the global auto chief indicted on charges of financial wrongdoing, remains consigned to a small cell after a Tokyo court again denied his bail request. His predicament has turned a spotlight on the Japanese criminal justice system, writes the NYT’s Motoko Rich:The lawyers can detain defendants for more than three weeks before bringing charges, arrest suspects multiple times to extend their detention and interrogate them without their counsel.Some in the West have reacted strongly to the power that prosecutors have wielded. “This is an approach to the rights of accused people that one would expect in a dictatorship, not in Japan,” one critic wrote.Revolving DoorBlackBerry named Bryan Palma, a senior vice president at Cisco, as its chief operating officer and president. (MarketWatch)The Speed ReadDeals• Unilever acquired the Laundress, a New York-based line of premium cleaning products, as it tries to bolster its high-end home care products. (Reuters)• Edward Lampert, the Sears chairman, says his bid for the retailer will make the company competitive and profitable again, but experts say there’s more to it. (CNN)• Two House panels will hold a joint hearing on Feb. 13 on the proposed merger between T-Mobile and Sprint. (Reuters)• Joe Kaeser, the chief executive of Siemens, said the European Union might be right in blocking his company’s planned rail merger with Alstom. (Bloomberg)• Dropbox agreed to acquire HelloSign, an e-signature software company, for $230 million in cash. (Bloomberg)Politics and Policy• After a long back-and-forth, Speaker Nancy Pelosi invited President Trump to deliver the State of the Union address on Feb. 5. (NYT)• The special counsel Robert Mueller is close to finishing his investigation, Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, announced in a highly unusual confirmation of the state of the inquiry. (NYT)• The Trump administration imposed economic penalties on Venezuela, a punitive step to add to the pressure on President Nicolás Maduro to resign. (NYT)• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain is to present Parliament with an amended version of her Brexit deal today, but the public seems to be tiring of the apparently interminable saga. (CNBC)Tech• A glitch in FaceTime, Apple’s video and audio calling app, allows iPhone users to eavesdrop on others. (NYT)• The letter that forced Travis Kalanick out of Uber was among a series of files that were unsealed as part of a lawsuit over trade secrets brought by Alphabet’s Waymo. (Bloomberg)• Less than four months after Elon Musk settled fraud charges over his claims that Saudi Arabia was ready to back a buyout of Tesla, the kingdom has hedged most of its 4.9 percent stake in the company to protect against stock price volatility. (FT)• As the money-losing Snap tries to lure and keep users, its Snapchat app is considering what was once unthinkable: permanent posts. (Reuters)Best of the Rest• The California utility Pacific Gas & Electric filed for bankruptcy protection in anticipation of billions of dollars in liability claims for two years of wildfires. (NYT)• Wynn Resorts reached a proposed settlement with Nevada regulators over claims that its executives ignored sexual misconduct claims against Steve Wynn. (WSJ)• A lawyer for John Kapoor, the founder and former chairman of Insys Therapeutics, denied in court that he had any role in the U.S. opioid crisis. (Reuters)• Corporate debt loads have been growing, but household borrowing less so — and that could keep economies from tipping into recession. (WSJ)• Investing in utilities, once seen as safe, boring and modestly profitable, is now considered riskier and more exciting, because of alternative energy, global warming and natural disasters. (Bloomberg)• Andrea Orcel left UBS to join Santander as its chief executive, but then the offer was rescinded because of a compensation dispute. Now he is said to be preparing a legal fight. (FT)• American International Group, the insurance conglomerate, says it is 100 years old. Maurice Greenberg, its former chief executive, disagrees. (WSJ)• Peloton, which sells a high-tech exercise bike for roughly $2,000, is being roasted on social media for the ostentatious symbols of wealth in its most recent ad campaign. (FastCo)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Wednesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Never once at the start of my workweek — not in my morning coffee shop line; not in my crowded subway commute; not as I begin my bottomless inbox slog — have I paused, looked to the heavens and whispered: #ThankGodIt’sMonday. Apparently, that makes me a traitor to my generation. I learned this during a series of recent visits to WeWork locations in New York, where the throw pillows implore busy tenants to “Do what you love.” Neon signs demand they “Hustle harder,” and murals spread the gospel of T.G.I.M. Even the cucumbers in WeWork’s water coolers have an agenda. “Don’t stop when you’re tired,” someone recently carved into the floating vegetables’ flesh. “Stop when you are done.” Kool-Aid drinking metaphors are rarely this literal.Welcome to hustle culture. It is obsessed with striving, relentlessly positive, devoid of humor, and — once you notice it — impossible to escape. “Rise and Grind” is both the theme of a Nike ad campaign and the title of a book by a “Shark Tank” shark. New media upstarts like the Hustle, which produces a popular business newsletter and conference series, and One37pm, a content company created by the patron saint of hustling, Gary Vaynerchuk, glorify ambition not as a means to an end, but as a lifestyle.“The current state of entrepreneurship is bigger than career,” reads the One37pm “About Us” page. “It’s ambition, grit and hustle. It’s a live performance that lights up your creativity … a sweat session that sends your endorphins coursing ... a visionary who expands your way of thinking.” From this point of view, not only does one never stop hustling — one never exits a kind of work rapture, in which the chief purpose of exercising or attending a concert is to get inspiration that leads back to the desk.Ryan Harwood, the chief executive of One37pm’s parent company, told me that the site’s content is aimed at a younger generation of people who are seeking permission to follow their dreams. “They want to know how to own their moment, at any given moment,” he said.“Owning one’s moment” is a clever way to rebrand “surviving the rat race.” In the new work culture, enduring or even merely liking one’s job is not enough. Workers should love what they do, and then promote that love on social media, thus fusing their identities to that of their employers. Why else would LinkedIn build its own version of Snapchat Stories?This is toil glamour, and it is going mainstream. Most visibly, WeWork — which investors recently valued at $47 billion — is on its way to becoming the Starbucks of office culture. It has exported its brand of performative workaholism to 27 countries, with 400,000 tenants, including workers from 30 percent of the Global Fortune 500.In January, WeWork’s founder, Adam Neumann, announced that his start-up was rebranding itself as the We Company, to reflect an expansion into residential real estate and education. Describing the shift, Fast Company wrote: “Rather than just renting desks, the company aims to encompass all aspects of people’s lives, in both physical and digital worlds.” The ideal client, one imagines, is someone so enamored of the WeWork office aesthetic — whip-cracking cucumbers and all — that she sleeps in a WeLive apartment, works out at a Rise by We gym, and sends her children to a WeGrow school.From this vantage, “Office Space,” the Gen-X slacker paean that came out 20 years ago next month, feels like science fiction from a distant realm. It’s almost impossible to imagine a start-up worker bee of today confessing, as protagonist Peter Gibbons does, “It’s not that I’m lazy. It’s that I just don’t care.” Workplace indifference just doesn’t have a socially acceptable hashtag.‘It’s grim and exploitative’It’s not difficult to view hustle culture as a swindle. After all, convincing a generation of workers to beaver away is convenient for those at the top.“The vast majority of people beating the drums of hustle-mania are not the people doing the actual work. They’re the managers, financiers and owners,” said David Heinemeier Hansson, the co-founder of Basecamp, a software company. We spoke in October, as he was promoting his new book, “It Doesn’t Have to Be Crazy at Work,” about creating healthy company cultures.Mr. Heinemeier Hansson said that despite data showing long hours improve neither productivity nor creativity, myths about overwork persist because they justify the extreme wealth created for a small group of elite techies. “It’s grim and exploitative,” he said.Elon Musk, who stands to reap stock compensation upward of $50 billion if his company, Tesla, meets certain performance levels, is a prime example of extolling work by the many that will primarily benefit him. He tweeted in November that there are easier places to work than Tesla, “but nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week.” The correct number of hours “varies per person,” he continued, but is “about 80 sustained, peaking about 100 at times. Pain level increases exponentially above 80.”Mr. Musk, who has more than 24 million Twitter followers, further noted that if you love what you do, “it (mostly) doesn’t feel like work.” Even he had to soften the lie of T.G.I.M. with a parenthetical.Arguably, the technology industry started this culture of work zeal sometime around the turn of the millennium, when the likes of Google started to feed, massage and even play doctor to its employees. The perks were meant to help companies attract the best talent — and keep employees at their desks longer. It seemed enviable enough: Who wouldn’t want an employer that literally took care of your dirty laundry?But today, as tech culture infiltrates every corner of the business world, its hymns to the virtues of relentless work remind me of nothing so much as Soviet-era propaganda, which promoted impossible-seeming feats of worker productivity to motivate the labor force. One obvious difference, of course, is that those Stakhanovite posters had an anticapitalist bent, criticizing the fat cats profiting from free enterprise. Today’s messages glorify personal profit, even if bosses and investors — not workers — are the ones capturing most of the gains. Wage growth has been essentially stagnant for years.Perhaps we’ve all gotten a little hungry for meaning. Participation in organized religion is falling, especially among American millennials. In San Francisco, where I live, I’ve noticed that the concept of productivity has taken on an almost spiritual dimension. Techies here have internalized the idea — rooted in the Protestant work ethic — that work is not something you do to get what you want; the work itself is all. Therefore any life hack or company perk that optimizes their day, allowing them to fit in even more work, is not just desirable but inherently good.Aidan Harper, who created a European workweek-shrinkage campaign called 4 Day Week, argues that this is dehumanizing and toxic. “It creates the assumption that the only value we have as human beings is our productivity capability — our ability to work, rather than our humanity,” he told me.It’s cultist, Mr. Harper added, to convince workers to buy into their own exploitation with a change-the-world message. “It’s creating the idea that Elon Musk is your high priest,” he said. “You’re going into your church every day and worshiping at the altar of work.”For congregants of the Cathedral of Perpetual Hustle, spending time on anything that’s nonwork related has become a reason to feel guilty. Jonathan Crawford, a San Francisco-based entrepreneur, told me that he sacrificed his relationships and gained more than 40 pounds while working on Storenvy, his e-commerce start-up. If he socialized, it was at a networking event. If he read, it was a business book. He rarely did anything that didn’t have a “direct R.O.I.,” or return on investment, for his company.Mr. Crawford changed his lifestyle after he realized it made him miserable. Now, as an entrepreneur-in-residence at 500 Start-ups, an investment firm, he tells fellow founders to seek out nonwork-related activities like reading fiction, watching movies or playing games. Somehow this comes off as radical advice. “It’s oddly eye-opening to them because they didn’t realize they saw themselves as a resource to be expended,” Mr. Crawford said.It’s easy to become addicted to the pace and stress of work in 2019. Bernie Klinder, a consultant for a large tech company, said he tried to limit himself to five 11-hour days per week, which adds up to an extra day of productivity. “If your peers are competitive, working a ‘normal workweek’ will make you look like a slacker,” he wrote in an email.Still, he’s realistic about his place in the rat race. “I try to keep in mind that if I dropped dead tomorrow, all of my acrylic workplace awards would be in the trash the next day,” he wrote, “and my job would be posted in the paper before my obituary.”Lusty for Monday morningsThe logical endpoint of excessively avid work, of course, is burnout. That is the subject of a recent viral essay by the BuzzFeed cultural critic Anne Helen Petersen, which thoughtfully addresses one of the incongruities of hustle-mania in the young. Namely: If Millennials are supposedly lazy and entitled, how can they also be obsessed with killing it at their jobs?Millennials, Ms. Petersen argues, are just desperately striving to meet their own high expectations. An entire generation was raised to expect that good grades and extracurricular overachievement would reward them with fulfilling jobs that feed their passions. Instead, they wound up with precarious, meaningless work and a mountain of student loan debt. And so posing as a rise-and-grinder, lusty for Monday mornings, starts to make sense as a defense mechanism.Most jobs — even most good jobs! — are full of pointless drudgery. Most corporations let us down in some way. And yet years after the HBO satire “Silicon Valley” made the vacuous mission statement “making the world a better place” a recurring punch line, many companies still cheerlead the virtues of work with high-minded messaging. For example, Spotify, a company that lets you listen to music, says that its mission is “to unlock the potential of human creativity.” Dropbox, which lets you upload files and stuff, says its purpose is “to unleash the world’s creative energy by designing a more enlightened way of working.”David Spencer, a professor of economics at Leeds University Business School, says that such posturing by companies, economists and politicians dates at least to the rise of mercantilism in 16th-century Europe. “There has been an ongoing struggle by employers to venerate work in ways that distract from its unappealing features,” he said. But such propaganda can backfire. In 17th-century England, work was lauded as a cure for vice, Mr. Spencer said, but the unrewarding truth just drove workers to drink more.Internet companies may have miscalculated in encouraging employees to equate their work with their intrinsic value as human beings. After a long era of basking in positive esteem, the tech industry is experiencing a backlash both broad and fierce, on subjects from monopolistic behavior to spreading disinformation and inciting racial violence. And workers are discovering how much power they wield. In November, some 20,000 Googlers participated in a walkout protesting the company’s handling of sexual abusers. Other company employees shut down an artificial intelligence contract with the Pentagon that could have helped military drones become more lethal.Mr. Heinemeier Hansson cited the employee protests as evidence that millennial workers would eventually revolt against the culture of overwork. “People aren’t going to stand for this,” he said, using an expletive, “or buy the propaganda that eternal bliss lies at monitoring your own bathroom breaks.” He was referring to an interview that the former chief executive of Yahoo, Marissa Mayer, gave in 2016, in which she said that working 130 hours a week was possible “if you’re strategic about when you sleep, when you shower, and how often you go to the bathroom.”Ultimately, workers must decide if they admire or reject this level of devotion. Ms. Mayer’s comments were widely panned on social media when the interview ran, but since then, Quora users have eagerly shared their own strategies for mimicking her schedule. Likewise, Mr. Musk’s “pain level” tweets drew plenty of critical takes, but they also garnered just as many accolades and requests for jobs.The grim reality of 2019 is that begging a billionaire for employment via Twitter is not considered embarrassing, but a perfectly plausible way to get ahead. On some level, you have to respect the hustlers who see a dismal system and understand that success in it requires total, shameless buy-in. If we’re doomed to toil away until we die, we may as well pretend to like it. Even on Mondays.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Top leaders of intelligence agencies made their annual appearance before the Senate to discuss the biggest threats to national security.Cyberthreats from China and Russia were high on the agenda. Among other observations: North Korea is “unlikely to give up” all of its nuclear stockpiles and Iran is not actively trying to make a nuclear bomb — both direct contradictions of President Trump’s foreign policy tenets. Above from left, the F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray; the C.I.A. director, Gina Haspel; and the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats.Also notable was the absence of any rationale for building a wall along the southwestern border, which Mr. Trump has characterized as the country’s most critical security threat._____2. It’s so cold that…This is not the setup to a bad joke. Temperatures are growing dangerously low across the Midwest this week. You could get frostbite in as little as five minutes; it will be warmer in Antarctica than in Des Moines; it could feel like minus 65 in Minneapolis.Hundreds of schools are being closed, and the governors of Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin have declared emergencies. Above, Lake Michigan freezing over in Chicago.How can it get so cold if the Earth is warming? Because climate and weather are not the same thing._____3. British lawmakers, voting on a broad spectrum of amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s E.U. withdrawal plan, embraced a measure that, in principle, rules out withdrawing without a deal.Parliament also rejected delaying Brexit beyond the March 29 deadline. Above, protesters on both sides of the issue outside Parliament on Tuesday.Before the voting session, Mrs. May raised the stakes by promising to reopen negotiations on the agreement — a 585-page text that the E.U. has said was its final offer. Critics think she is trying to run down the clock to present them with two options: her plan or no deal._____4. The U.S. State Department said it gave Juan Guaidó, above, the right to control Venezuelan assets and property in U.S. banks, one week after he declared himself the interim president of his country.The move is the latest part of the U.S. campaign to oust President Nicolás Maduro, whose re-election has been widely contested — but who still has the backing of the country’s generals.Venezuela has begun moving, carefully, against Mr. Guaidó. The chief prosecutor announced a formal investigation of him for antigovernment activities and encouraging protests. His assets have been frozen, and the government is trying to stop him from leaving the country._____5. Apple appears to be entering a rare period of vulnerability. The company said that profits were flat this quarter compared with a year ago, citing an economic slump in China.Consumer demand in China for expensive iPhones has slowed, particularly with the rise of cheaper, local alternatives. The company is also uniquely vulnerable to tariffs against China, where most of its products are assembled. Above, today at the New York Stock Exchange.And in another embarrassment for Apple, an iPhone bug allowed FaceTime users to eavesdrop through its video and audio calling app. Here’s how to disable FaceTime to avoid the glitch._____6. Pacific Gas and Electric, California’s largest utility, filed for bankruptcy protection. It is facing tens of billions of dollars in liability claims for two years of wildfires.Equipment owned and maintained by the utility sparked at least 17 of the 21 major wildfires that burned through California in 2017, but some argue that climate change and development in remote areas have made blazes more destructive. Above, a PG&E crew working on power lines during the Camp Fire in November.The utility serves 16 million customers, whose electricity might become more expensive as PG&E tries to recoup its losses from the fires. Here are answers to some other big questions about the bankruptcy._____7. Today’s 2020 update: Senator Kamala Harris, the most high-profile and politically connected black woman to run for president, would seem well positioned to secure the support of black voters that buoyed former President Barack Obama in 2008.Yet interviews in early primary states like South Carolina and her home state, California, show the challenges she faces: activists’ skepticism of her record as a prosecutor, the desire for a push further to the left, sexism and some concern that a female candidate might not beat President Trump. Above, Ms. Harris at a local sorority chapter in South Carolina.“I don’t know, I need to see her devotion to the African-American community,” said one resident of Columbia, S.C._____8. Want to know why you fall facefirst into the ocean every time you go surfing? Let’s go to the videotapes.At the new Surf Simply resort in Costa Rica, guests are filmed as they catch a wave, and that’s just the start of personalized, tech-based coaching. Surf Simply is so popular that sessions routinely get booked out a year in advance (a one-week stay starts at about $4,500).One repeat surf guest summed it up: “It’s the school for surf nerds — but it’s the coolest nerds you’ve ever met.”_____9. A few words from the stars.Over four seasons, the Netflix series “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” turned the story of a woman freed after being kidnapped and held underground for 15 years into a sprightly, joyous comedy.As the series ends, its lead actress, Ellie Kemper, above, reflects on what she learned from her castmates and what it’s like to “be a part of a show that seems to make people feel better.”And the actress and director Lena Dunham pays homage to her literary hero, Diana Athill, the British centenarian who died last week after a life of both fierce independence and marvelous affirmation._____10. Finally, Aztec legend meets science.The axolotl, a tube-sock-like salamander, was thought to be a god who transformed himself to avoid sacrifice. Many animals can perform some degree of regeneration, but axolotls can grow back a nearly perfect replica of just about any body part (excepting, of course, the head).Now, researchers reported the most complete assembly of DNA yet for the striking amphibian, also known as the Mexican walking fish. Fully mapping its genome could unlock some of the secrets of regeneration for humans.Have a restorative night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.One by one, the concerns that have hung over the stock market have faded. Fears that the United States economy would dip into a recession this year have eased. The Federal Reserve seems to be finished raising interest rates for the foreseeable future, and optimism has increased that the United States and China could end their trade war.But if the January snap back (it was the best start to a year for stocks in decades, after the worst December for stocks in an even longer period) is to sustain itself, big technology companies likely will have to lead the way. So far this year, they have not done that. For much of the past decade, the fate of the stock market has been tied to the performance of a handful of the largest tech companies: Amazon, Apple, Alphabet, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix led the market from one record to the next.By the end of August, their sway over the direction of the S&P 500 exceeded all but two of the index’s 11 sector groupings. As the index pushed to a record high last summer, the rise in those six companies’ shares accounted for half of its gain. They led on the way down too, dragging the broader market lower over the final three months of 2018 and nearly ending the longest bull market on record.So it’s notable, then, that as the S&P 500 rallied nearly 8 percent in January, the big technology stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the benchmark’s rise, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices. What happened? The companies have faced a fundamental question since late last year: Could they continue to pull in new users and generate more sales in a slowing global economy? Sales growth had begun to slow in the second half of 2018 and earnings updates in January haven’t fully resolved investors’ concerns about their trajectory. “This is the first quarter in my memory that technology has on the whole had worse metrics than the S&P 500,” said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute, referring to the earnings and revenue growth rate of big technology companies.After Apple warned of diminishing demand for new iPhones in China earlier this year, its forecast for the current quarter wasn’t as dire as many on Wall Street had feared. The stock has gained 7.7 percent since then. Still, the iPhone maker reported a 15 percent drop in revenue, including a 27 percent decline in China, and its results indicated a difficult road ahead. Its stock remains nearly 30 percent below its peak.Amazon reported record profits and revenue. But its shares were down 5.4 percent Friday in part because revenue from online shopping slowed and the growth of Prime memberships appeared to have plateaued.Microsoft shares have fallen 3.4 percent since it reported on Wednesday. Revenue at the software giant has surged in recent years as its bet on cloud computing has paid off, but there were continued signs that that acceleration could be tapering off.Facebook, whose shares were the most battered among the big tech companies last year, was perhaps the bright spot this earnings season. Despite a string of scandals, the social network generated record revenue and profit last year. Its shares have jumped 10.5 percent since Wednesday.Netflix also said revenue would grow more slowly this quarter. Its stock is down almost 3.8 percent since it reported on Jan. 17.There is a big caveat to all the hand-wringing about slowing growth: All five companies still generate huge revenue. And should Beijing and Washington reach an agreement in the trade war, sales could pick up if the global economy, particularly China’s, begins to gain speed. “There was real concern that tech was the canary in the coal mine of what would be a very dark 2019,” said Daniel Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities covering technology companies. “Thus far a lot of those fears are proving overblown. That could set the stage for tech to make new highs this year, depending on what happens with China.”Good Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A ‘chip dip’ threatens Big Tech’s cloutFrom Apple to Nvidia, tech companies say that business is slowing. What’s happening?Big tech companies are reporting lackluster results. Weak Chinese consumer demand blew a $9 billion hole in Apple’s latest quarterly sales. Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations. Intel’s January financials didn’t meet forecasts. And Samsung’s sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter.Behind the trend: semiconductors. “China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand,” write David Streitfeld and Don Clark of the NYT. With chip manufacturers predicting slumping sales for 2019, tech more generally could be in line for a slowdown.Sound familiar? “The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust,” write Mr. Streitfeld and Mr. Clark.And the industry no longer carries the stock market. For years, stock market performance have been tied to the fortunes of the largest tech companies: Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix. As the S&P 500 pushed to a record high last summer, rises in those six companies’ share prices accounted for half of its gain. But when the index rallied nearly 8 percent in January, Stephen Grocer writes, their stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the rise.Lloyd Blankfein may pay for Goldman’s links to 1MDBThe former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. — as well as his successor, David Solomon, and other top executives — may have to give back some compensation from 2018, depending on the findings of an investigation into the firm’s work with the scandal-ridden Malaysian investment fund 1MDB.The announcement, made in a regulatory filing on Friday, shows how seriously Goldman is treating any role it may have had in fraud committed at 1MDB. Prosecutors in the U.S. and Malaysia are leading criminal investigations into 1MDB, and a former top deal maker at the firm has pleaded guilty to bribery, conspiracy and money laundering charges. Goldman says it’s cooperating with authorities.The WSJ calculates that Mr. Blankfein, who stepped down as chief executive of Goldman last year, might lose millions. And though Mr. Solomon wasn’t a top-ranking Goldman executive at the time, he could see some of his $23 million pay for last year clawed back as well. (Gary Cohn, who was Goldman’s No. 2 during the 1MDB work and received a lump payout when he left the firm in 2017, wouldn’t be affected.)In lighter Goldman news: Mr. Solomon, whose side hustle is DJing as DJ D-Sol, has released his second single, “Feel Alive.”Deutsche Bank refused Trump a loan in 2016For two decades, Deutsche Bank was the only major lender to give Donald Trump money, helping him finance his real estate operations. But when he sought a loan in early 2016 to help pay for a Scottish golf course — all while running for president — the German lender said no.More from David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Ben Protess of the NYT:Senior officials at the bank, including its future chief executive, believed that Mr. Trump’s divisive candidacy made such a loan too risky, the people said. Among their concerns was that if Mr. Trump won the election and then defaulted, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between not collecting on the debt or seizing the assets of the president of the United States.What’s next: Expect House Democrats to include this in their investigation of Mr. Trump’s finances.More Deutsche Bank news: The lender reportedly scrambled to rid itself of a $600 million loan made to VTB, a Russian state-owned bank, in late 2016 as the German bank sought to reduce its exposure to Russian entities.How an S.U.V. became a Brexit warning signThe automaker Nissan confirmed yesterday that it had abandoned plans to build its new X-Trail sport utility vehicle in Britain and said that the car would be produced solely in Japan. It’s a blow for the British economy, and a clear signal that uncertainty over Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. is weighing on corporate minds.A clear culprit. “The continued uncertainty around the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. is not helping companies like ours to plan for the future,” Nissan’s Europe chairman, Gianluca de Ficchy, said in a statement. Greg Clark, Britain’s business secretary, told the FT that it was “a warning sign” about how much damage could be caused by a no-deal Brexit.Nissan is not alone. British C.F.O.s say that Brexit is currently the largest threat to their businesses. Some 78 percent of those surveyed said that the business environment in the nation would deteriorate if Britain left the E.U.What now? Prime Minister Theresa May is set to return to Brussels in the coming days in an attempt to redraft her Brexit deal. In the meantime, Bloomberg reports that she “will launch a new government working group intended to unite the feuding pro- and anti-Brexit factions” in her party.The oil field that made American oil greatThe U.S. is now the top oil producer in the world, able to sway petroleum prices and breezily sanction Iran and Venezuela. The reason, as Cliff Krauss of the NYT notes: the Permian Basin, the heart of America’s shale industry.How big is it? It covers the same area as South Dakota, and produces four million barrels of oil a day — making it a bigger generator of oil than any member of OPEC other than Iraq and Saudi Arabia.What makes it special? It’s huge and rich in oil rather than in less-valuable natural gas. And it’s close to refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.What could go wrong? Oil companies there might pump too much, drawing ire from OPEC. As Scott Sheffield, the chairman of Pioneer Natural Resources, told the NYT: “You could have another price war.” And U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan crude could hurt American refineries, which can’t rely solely on the Permian.Hungry for ‘executive time’ in your calendar? Study Trump’s schedule and weepAxios has published almost three months of President Trump’s schedules after they were leaked, reportedly by somebody in the White House. Some highlights:• “Trump has spent around 60 percent of his scheduled time over the past three months in unstructured ‘Executive Time.’ ”• “He spends his mornings in the residence, watching TV, reading the papers, and responding to what he sees and reads by phoning aides, members of Congress, friends, administration officials and informal advisers,” six people with direct knowledge of his schedule told Axios.• “Trump’s first meeting of the day — usually around 11 or 11:30 a.m. — is often an intelligence briefing or a 30-minute meeting with the chief of staff.”• “The president sometimes has meetings during Executive Time that he doesn’t want most West Wing staff to know about for fear of leaks. And his mornings sometimes include calls with heads of state, political meetings and meetings with counsel in the residence, which aren’t captured on these schedules.”Bonus: Axios also compared the schedules with those of Mr. Trump’s predecessors. He appears to share most in common with Bill Clinton’s early days in office.2019’s Super Bowl ads: nostalgia, wokeness and depressing techO.K., so the game itself may have been a slog to watch, and the halftime show was forgettable. But for those of you who came for the ads, here are the themes that dominated — to the tune of $5.2 million per 30 seconds of airtime.The ’90s: Stella Artois featured Carrie Bradshaw from “Sex and the City” and the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Doritos put the Backstreet Boys front and center.Social consciousness: The dating app Bumble hired Serena Williams to urge women to “make the first move” in all parts of their lives. And Budweiser touted renewable energy in an ad featuring a cute dog.The downsides of tech: Olay’s spot showed the actress Sarah Michelle Gellar struggling to save herself from a home intruder when her phone’s facial-recognition software fails. An ad for Pringles featured a smart speaker bemoaning its existence. And TurboTax built an ad around a robot boy craving a late-night snack.Revolving doorApple reportedly removed Bill Stasior as the head of its Siri virtual assistant unit, though he remains at the company.Gianni Infantino is poised to win a second term as president of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body.SoftBank of Japan hired Sarah Lubman, most recently a partner at the Brunswick Group, as a partner in corporate communications.The speed readDeals• Spotify is said to be in talks to buy the podcasting company Gimlet Media. (NYT)• The drug companies Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene will pay about $304 million in fees to their investment banks for arranging their $74 billion union. (FT)• KKR is said to be weighing a sale of the chip-making equipment unit of Hitachi Kokusai. (FT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund is in talks to invest up to $1.5 billion in Guazi.com, a Chinese used-car sales platform. (Reuters)• Maoyan Entertainment, a Chinese movie-ticket giant, fell 2.7 percent in its Hong Kong stock debut on Monday, the latest flubbed I.P.O. by a Chinese tech company. (Reuters)Politics and policy• The senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders have proposed limiting corporate stock buybacks. (NYT Op-Ed)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, reintroduced legislation aimed at strengthening enforcement of antitrust laws. (Reuters)• Michael Bloomberg is said to be reconsidering running for president as Democratic primary voters appear to be favoring more liberal contenders. (Axios)• President Trump declined to commit to making public any final report by the special prosecutor Robert Mueller. (NYT)Trade• Chinese state-owned firms bought a million tons of American soybeans on Friday, a day after talks on a trade deal between Beijing and Washington yielded progress. (NYT)• Despite a possible U.S.-China agreement, global trade continues to suffer. (WSJ)• European investment funds are worried about their ability to trade dual-listed stocks like those of Unilever and Shell if Britain leaves the E.U. without a deal. (FT)Tech• Venture capitalists are telling start-ups to stockpile cash ahead of a potential economic slowdown. (FT)• Meet the man behind the egg picture that became Instagram’s most-liked image. Surprise: He works in advertising. (NYT)• Cisco wants a U.S. version of Europe’s strict new data privacy rules. (FT)• How lawmakers plan to update tech in Congress — including its 2000-era internet connections. (WSJ)• Foxconn said it was still committed to building a factory in Wisconsin. (NYT)• It’s not just you: Captchas — which you complete to prove you’re not a robot — have gotten far harder. (Verge)Best of the rest• Vice Media plans to lay off 250 workers. Here’s what went wrong for the company and for other digital news organizations like BuzzFeed. (FT, NYT)• McKinsey advised the maker of OxyContin on how to “turbocharge” opioid sales, a lawsuit alleges. (NYT)• Why taxing the wealthy is so hard. (NYT)• Gains from President Trump’s corporate tax cuts aren’t as impressive as they first appeared. (WSJ)• How China got MSCI to add its market to one of the world’s best-known global benchmarks. (WSJ)• Ikea plans to test furniture leasing. (FT)• Hershey blames manufacturing processes for missing tips on its Kisses. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Within minutes of the stock market’s opening trades on Tuesday, Apple had reclaimed the title of most valuable American company for the first time in more than two months.By around midday, Microsoft had taken back the top spot. And so the day went, the two tech titans going back and forth, until trading ended with Microsoft the leader at a market value of $823 billion.The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year. The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results. And Alphabet (Google’s parent company) has lurked not far behind the whole time.The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years. Apple passed Exxon Mobil to become the most valuable company in the United States almost eight years ago, and after 2012 it held on, largely unchallenged, for six years.The company’s ascension was a precursor to Big Tech’s takeover of the stock market. Investors scooped up shares of the largest tech companies, believing their sales growth was unassailable, and by the second half of 2016, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet and Apple were the five most valuable companies in the S&P 500.But investors’ faith in Big Tech began to weaken last year. Apple fell hard as signs of a mature mobile phone market, a softening global economy and a trade war between China and the United States raised doubts about the company’s ability to sell more iPhones.Nearly $450 billion was wiped off its market value — an amount greater than all but six companies in the S&P 500.Shares of the other tech titans fell as well. But Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet have fared far better than Apple and the broader market over the past year, as bets by the first two — and, to a lesser extent, by Alphabet — on cloud computing drove a surge in revenue.Microsoft and Apple, which has recovered some of its losses since it reported earnings last week, are both valued at a little more than $820 billion. Behind them are Amazon, at $815 billion, and Alphabet, at $797 billion.In fifth place is Warren E. Buffett’s investment conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway. But with a market value of $511 billion, it is far behind.SAN FRANCISCO — Slack, a workplace messaging company, said Monday that it had confidentially filed paperwork for an initial public offering, joining the growing number of technology start-ups heading to the stock market.Slack, which is based in San Francisco, gave no details about the offering’s timing and said it was awaiting a standard review of its paperwork by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The move was expected given that Slack’s chief executive, Stewart Butterfield, had long indicated that he planned to take the company public. Slack recently hired Goldman Sachs to lead the offering.Slack’s confidential filing comes amid a rush by privately held companies to go public this year. Many of these start-ups, which have been highly valued by private investors, are part of a generation of technology companies known as unicorns. Public share sales by the companies are expected to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley for entrepreneurs and venture capital investors.In December, the ride-hailing companies Uber and Lyft filed confidential paperwork for their own public offerings. Their efforts stalled temporarily last month when a government shutdown hampered the S.E.C.’s ability to review the companies’ registration documents. Other tech companies expected to go public this year include the online scrapbooking firm Pinterest.Slack declined to comment beyond its statement about the confidential filing.There is likely to be a strong demand for Slack stock. The company was valued at $7.1 billion by private investors last year, but in recent weeks investment firms have offered to buy its shares at a price that values Slack at $13 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the details who was not authorized to speak publicly.Slack also plans an unusual form of public offering called a direct listing, the person added. Unlike most I.P.O.s, in which firms sell stock to public market investors in advance, direct listings let a company begin trading its shares on an exchange without raising new funds. Spotify, a provider of streaming music, went public in 2018 in a direct listing, paving the way for other high-profile start-ups to follow.With a direct listing, shareholders can also sell their stock immediately after the public offering, instead of waiting for what is known as a lockup period to expire.Slack has little need for cash. It raised $427 million in new financing in August, a year after raising $250 million. The company has collected a total of more than $1 billion from investors that include the SoftBank Vision Fund, General Atlantic, Dragoneer Investment Group and T. Rowe Price Associates.Mr. Butterfield began Slack out of a gaming start-up, Tiny Speck. While the company’s game products failed to take off, its internal communication tool showed promise. In 2014, the company began selling that communication tool, called Slack.Start-ups quickly adopted Slack, and larger companies followed suit. The company offers free and paid versions of Slack and counts more than 85,000 paying customers, including 65 Fortune 100 companies. Last month, Slack said 10 million people now used its product every day. The company generated more than $350 million in revenue last year, said the person with knowledge of the details.Some companies that have filed to go public have never reached that finish line. Over the last year, a number of high-profile business software companies that took steps to go public were snapped up by a tech giant at the last minute. In November, for example, Qualtrics, an analytics start-up, sold to SAP for $8 billion just days before it was set to ring the opening bell at Nasdaq.Google, Microsoft and Amazon have previously expressed interest in acquiring Slack, but the company has demurred. Now some of them have increasingly begun to compete with the start-up. When Microsoft introduced its own workplace messaging company, Microsoft Teams, in 2016, Slack took out a newspaper ad directed at its new competitor.“We’re genuinely excited to have some competition,” it read.In January, Microsoft announced that 420,000 organizations used its Teams product, including 89 of the Fortune 100.SAN FRANCISCO — Don’t look now: Storm clouds are gathering over tech.Chinese consumers have pulled back their spending, blowing a $9 billion hole in Apple’s recent quarterly revenue. China was again a culprit when Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations, though the graphics chip maker also blamed slack demand from Bitcoin miners and cloud data centers.Intel, the big chip maker, cited intensifying “trade and macro concerns” for financial results in January that did not meet expectations. And Samsung, another semiconductor powerhouse, said sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter because of weakening demand for its memory chips from data centers and smartphones.China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand.Warnings about a sales slowdown this year have come in recent weeks from big chip suppliers that also include Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Micron Technology and Western Digital. It’s an abrupt reversal, coming on the heels of stellar results in 2018 for the business that gave Silicon Valley its name.Last year, manufacturers shipped a staggering 1 trillion chips and other semiconductor devices, 10 percent more than the year before, IC Insights estimates. But 2019 is shaping up to be a much different story, now that several important sources of chip demand appear to be dampening.The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust.Back then, investors showed no mercy. Intel made what seemed a modest adjustment to its revenue forecast for the third quarter of 2000, saying it would be up 3 to 5 percent instead of 7 to 9 percent. The value of the company immediately fell by nearly 30 percent over the next few days.This year, with a similar downgrade, investors largely shrugged it off. Intel shed about 5 percent of its value over a week.While acknowledging the parallels to 2000, Gene Munster, research director for Loup Ventures, a venture capital firm, said, “I think it’s different this time.”Back then, among the best customers for the established chip firms were start-ups, which had more dreams than revenue. As the start-ups faltered, the chip firms were imperiled. The storm lasted for years.“These are all real companies now, with real customers,” Mr. Munster said. “People are willing to look past a few bumpy months.”Even if the problems do not linger, they are a reminder that demand is not eternal. That seems to be what happened with smartphones, which use multiple varieties of chips to run software, process data and connect to cellular networks.Consider Apple, which gave a muted forecast in October for the holiday season and followed up early last month with its first full-fledged revenue warning in 16 years. The iPhone maker faces stiff competition and slumping demand in China. Total smartphone shipments fell 15 percent in that country in the fourth quarter, according to research firm Canalys.Michael Wolf, who surveys consumers annually about their technology and media usage for his management consulting firm Activate, said people seem to be shifting to lower-priced phone models and cheaper service plans. But he said demand seems strong for digital subscription services like Netflix, video games, online advertising and business-to-business sales for companies like Microsoft.“From all of our research, I don’t see some general consumer malaise,” Mr. Wolf said.Yet several other businesses appear to be softening as well, including the market for server systems used by cloud service operators, including Amazon, Microsoft and Google. Sales of high-priced chips for such hardware have driven profits for companies like Intel and Nvidia, but they now say that equipment buyers for data centers have turned cautious.“Cloud service providers shifted from building capacity to absorbing capacity,” Robert Swan, who was then Intel’s chief financial officer and acting chief executive, said on a conference call after Intel released its fourth-quarter results. (On Thursday, Mr. Swan became Intel’s chief executive.)Longtime tech industry watchers began picking up trouble signs late last spring in the market for memory chips, an essential component in computers that in decades past prompted trade tensions between the United States and rivals in Japan and South Korea. Makers of a key category called dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, have suffered product shortages and gluts that whipsawed pricing and heralded changing fortunes for the broader industry.During the dot-com bust of 2001, DRAM revenue plummeted 63 percent while total semiconductor revenue fell 31 percent, according to Gartner data.But conditions changed dramatically over the years as manufacturers fled from the lack of profits, leaving three major DRAM makers — Samsung, Hynix and Micron. They have been slow to boost production, enabling them to keep their prices high. And they also benefited as memory became more important in smartphones, data center hardware and other products beyond the personal computers that once drove most sales.“The markets today are structurally different,” Sanjay Mehrotra, Micron’s chief executive, said in a recent interview.Yet market cycles haven’t disappeared entirely. DRAM prices peaked last June and began sliding, prompting Micron and Samsung to issue their recent profit warnings. DRAMeXchange, a Taiwan-based firm that tracks the market, predicts DRAM prices will fall an additional 20 percent in the first quarter.Memory chips “behave like onions or steel or any other commodity,” said Jim Handy, a market researcher at Objective Analysis. “If there is an oversupply, prices fall.”Nvidia presents an extreme example of both boom and bust. The 25-year-old company, which pioneered the specialized processors that generate images in video games, became one of Silicon Valley’s most valuable companies in 2017 as those chips were adapted for artificial intelligence uses by internet giants.But Nvidia’s processors also became extremely popular for the mathematical process of mining digital currency, driving a surge in demand that inflated prices and created a shortage of chips. Buyers wound up placing multiple or overly ambitious orders, making it hard for the company to get a handle on conventional demand for its technology.The cryptocurrency bubble faded suddenly last year, causing Nvidia’s revenue and stock price to tumble as the company wound up with extra inventories of unsold chips. The crypto issue “ended up being way, way bigger” for the company than expected, said Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Rosenblatt Securities. “It’s been a crazy story.”For all the turmoil, industry executives and analysts said that business conditions remain a lot healthier than past semiconductor slumps. For one thing, a series of mergers has reduced price competition. Companies like Micron, which routinely lost money in past cycles, are expected to remain solidly profitable even if sales dip.Beyond that, there is the glorious future.“Eventually the storm will pass and these companies — Nvidia, Apple, Samsung — will have a pole position in the next tech growth curve, including A.I., health care, self-driving cars, 5G,” said Mr. Munster, the Loup analyst. “The curve is so exciting, so juicy, so full of opportunity.”Late last month, chip giant Advanced Micro Devices reported disappointing financial results for the fourth quarter and warned that its first-quarter performance would be weaker than expected. The stock surged 20 percent.A couple of days later, General Electric reported one of its skimpiest quarterly profits of the century, badly missing analysts’ forecasts. The company’s stock posted its biggest jump in nearly a decade.In recent weeks, numerous companies — including Wynn Resorts, Ford and JPMorgan Chase — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally. Corporate America — and its shareholders — are the beneficiaries of a sudden improvement in the markets’ mood in the past two months. And that new optimism could keep propelling stocks higher, analysts said. With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.The outlook was much gloomier in December. At the end of last year, the prospect of a trade war, higher interest rates, a slowing global economy and political dysfunction soured Wall Street’s attitude. Investors dumped shares at the faintest whiff of tougher times ahead.Now, they’re buying even though corporate earnings have been relatively weak, with fewer companies beating Wall Street expectations than in recent quarters. The S&P 500 is up roughly 5 percent since companies started reporting results in middle of January. Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade, according to data from Bespoke Investment Group, a stock market research firm. “The market is being unbelievably kind,” said Jonathan Golub, chief United States equity strategist at Credit Suisse.The dynamic has also been a boon for companies whose financial results missed the mark. In recent years, the shares of companies whose profits or sales numbers didn’t beat Wall Street’s expectations lagged behind the broader market by 3.5 percentage points in the trading day that followed. This year, they have trailed by only 1.1 percentage points, according to analysis from Credit Suisse.Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon. That’s been bolstered by the Fed’s recent shift to a wait-and-see approach on future interest rate increases.Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed. “I would say the market is still pricing in flat-to-negative earnings growth,” said Binky Chadha, chief U.S. equity and global strategist at Deutsche Bank in New York. “So we basically see room for the relief rally to continue.”At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results. Advanced Micro Devices’ results were weighed down by sluggish sales of graphics-processing chips designed for consumer products, a further indication that Chinese consumers have pulled back on tech spending. The same Chinese slowdown hurt Ford’s results, which fell just short of Wall Street expectations. “The industry really fell off very, very sharply,” said Robert Shanks, the automaker’s chief financial officer. The company’s shares rose 3 percent. Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Breaking down the speechIn his 82-minute address last night, President Trump cited U.S. economic growth and his efforts to keep it up, while attacking opponents in a speech that ostensibly called for unity in Washington. Here are the highlights for the business world:Mr. Trump defended his economic record. He took credit for America’s robust economic health — a key message for his 2020 re-election campaign — and assailed critiques of his administration’s efforts, including tax cuts and loosened regulations. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations,” he said.He kept pressure on China. Mr. Trump promoted his administration’s trade battle with Beijing, saying, “We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end.” Talks between Washington and Beijing over a compromise are continuing.And he painted his potential rivals as socialists. As Democratic presidential contenders promote policies like Medicare for all, Mr. Trump tried to paint them as peddlers of dangerous ideas. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said.What didn’t he talk about? “Trump’s speech was notable for what he did not mention, including the ballooning federal debt, once a centerpiece of the Republican agenda; nor did he talk about Social Security, Medicare or other entitlements,” Philip Rucker and Toluse Olorunnipa of the WaPo write. Democrats fought back. Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for Georgia’s governorship last year, focused on “outlining the party’s vision for lower health care costs and a more inclusive immigration policy, and pressing her case that access to the voting booth should be easier, not harder.”Goldman may shrink its onetime trading powerhouseSteep cuts could hit Goldman Sachs’s commodities arm, which once generated huge profits for the firm, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.What may happen: “Executives are discussing pulling back from trading iron ore, platinum and other metals, and are ordering cost cuts to the sprawling logistics network that handles the transport and storage of physical commodities,” Ms. Hoffman writes.The context: The business was once one of Wall Street’s most envied money makers. But such trading has suffered in recent years, thanks to changing markets and tighter regulations. And Goldman’s current C.E.O., David Solomon, cut his teeth as an investment banker and is focused on operations like lending and asset management.The symbolism: “By taking a knife to the business, Mr. Solomon is sending a message down the ranks that nothing is sacred,” Ms. Hoffman writes.Why are stocks rising on mediocre earnings?In recent weeks, several companies — including Ford, G.E., JPMorgan Chase and Wynn Resorts — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally, writes Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade.”• “With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.”• “Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon.”• “Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed.”• “At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results.”A peek inside Wisconsin’s disastrous deal with FoxconnWhen the Chinese electronics manufacturer Foxconn decided to set up shop in the Midwest, President Trump hailed the move as “one of the great deals ever.” But Bloomberg Businessweek, which interviewed 49 people familiar with the project, reports how badly the effort has gone.The plan was to create a high-tech manufacturing hub. It was to be led by a Mount Pleasant plant housing a large chunk of Foxconn’s LCD TV production. “As Foxconn has discovered, there is no better place to build, hire, and grow than right here in the U.S.,” Mr. Trump said at the time, promising that it would create as many as 13,000 jobs.But manufacturing hasn’t taken off. “LCD components weren’t made in the U.S.A., according to sources familiar with the operation,” Austin Carr of Businessweek writes. “They were shipped from a Foxconn factory in Tijuana. The Wisconsin plant was only handling the last steps of assembly.” He adds that “during 2018, the company tried and failed to produce its own LCD materials at scale in Wisconsin so it wouldn’t have to import them from Mexico.”Nor has pay or recruitment. “Pay at the factory started at about $14 an hour with no benefits, much less than the $23 average Foxconn promised. Many people weren’t hired full time,” Mr. Carr writes. “Last fall, the company’s hiring targets began dropping internally,” he adds, with Foxconn importing foreign staff for some roles.Tracking the biggest public company? Good luckKeeping hold of the title of most valuable American company is proving to be difficult, Stephen Grocer of the NYT writes:• “The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year.”• “The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results.”• “The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years.”Blankfein vs. Sanders over stock buybacksA bill introduced by Senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock drew outrage from many in the corporate world — and tempted Goldman Sachs’s former C.E.O. Lloyd Blankfein to tweet for the first time in nearly seven months.Mr. Blankfein’s take: “A company used to be encouraged to return money to shareholders when it couldn’t reinvest in itself for a good return,” he tweeted. “The money doesn’t vanish, it gets reinvested in higher growth businesses that boost the economy and jobs. Is that bad?”Mr. Sanders’s retort: The senator shot back that a buyback, “increases the wealth of billionaires” like Mr. Blankfein. “Instead of making the very rich even richer, how about increasing wages for American workers. Is that a bad idea?”More buyback news: SoftBank of Japan plans to spend $5.5 billion of proceeds from the listing of its telecommunications arm to repurchase stock.Taxpayers paid almost $1 million a day for Trump’s Mar-a-Lago tripsThe Government Accountability Office has published a report of the president’s travel expenses, which show the cost of his visits to his Florida holiday home:• From Feb. 3 to March 5 in 2017, Mr. Trump spent portions of 14 days at the holiday home. The G.A.O. said that those trips had cost a total of $13.6 million, or just less than $1 million per day.• The costs included travel and accommodations, Secret Service expenses and bomb detection. Almost $60,000 was paid directly to Mar-a-Lago.• The Democratic senators Dianne Feinstein and Gary Peters, who requested the report, said the findings provide “a snapshot of the tens of millions of dollars President Trump spends to travel to his Palm Beach resort — all at taxpayer expense — including government funds that are paid directly to a business in which the president himself has a financial interest.”Revolving doorAngela Ahrendts will step down as Apple’s retail chief in April after a five-year run. She’ll be succeeded by Deirdre O’Brien, the company’s head of human resources.SeaWorld Entertainment said it would hire Gus Antorcha, who was most recently Carniva Cruise Line’s chief operating officer, as its new C.E.O.Goldman Sachs promoted Nick Giovanni to co-head of its global tech, media and telecom investment banking team.The speed readDeals• Reddit is reportedly raising as much as $300 million in fresh capital at a valuation of about $2.7 billion. (TechCrunch)• Tyson Foods has reportedly held talks to buy Foster Farms, a producer of chicken products, for about $2 billion. (CNBC)• Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil plan to invest $10 billion in a Texas hub for exporting natural gas. (NYT)• The activist investor Edward Bramson has renewed his push for a seat on the board of Barclays. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft led a $250 million investment in Databricks, a self-professed “boring A.I.” start-up, at a $2.75 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Spotify has struck deals to buy Gimlet Media, the podcast production company, and Anchor, a start-up that helps people make their own podcasts. (Recode)• The E.U. has blocked a merger of the rail divisions of Siemens and Alstom, saying the deal reduced competition too much. (European Commission)Politics and policy• Imaad Zuberi, a venture capitalist and longtime Democratic donor who later gave to Republicans after the 2016 campaign, has drawn scrutiny in a federal inquiry into President Trump’s inauguration. (NYT)• Federal prosecutors are investigating foreign payments to three law and lobbying firms — Mercury Public Affairs; the Podesta Group; and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom — recruited by Paul Manafort. (NYT)• A bipartisan group of senators proposed reimposing sanctions on ZTE if the Chinese telecom company again violates U.S. laws. (CNBC)• The Trump administration has sought to shore up support for its pick to lead the World Bank, David Malpass, ahead of an expected announcement of the nomination today. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump plans to meet with Kim Jong-un of North Korea in Vietnam later this month to revive their nuclear-weapons talks. (NYT)Trade• The Chinese government says that a U.S. report on its compliance with World Trade Organization rules is incorrect. (Reuters)• The U.S. has become Britain’s top oil supplier for the first time since the Suez crisis in 1956. (FT)• U.S. soybean farmers say they don’t share President Trump’s optimism about the sale of their crops to China. (Business Insider)Tech• France ordered Apple to pay back taxes that could amount to hundreds of millions of euros. (FT)• Snap’s stock price jumped over 20 percent after disclosing record revenues — but Bloomberg warns that “not performing terrible is not the same as performing well.” (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Huawei could face a 5G ban in Canada. (Bloomberg)• China’s economic slowdown is hurting its tech start-ups. (WSJ)• Facebook has taken down 22 more pages linked to the Infowars founder Alex Jones. And here’s an antitrust argument for blocking the social network’s plan to integrate its messaging services. (Recode, NYT Op-Ed)• Tesla has again cut the price of its cheapest Model 3, this time by $1,100. (CNBC)Best of the rest• Deutsche Bank says that the German economy is inching toward recession. (Bloomberg)• Blackstone is pulling back on plans to invest billions of dollars across Africa. It has also started a fight with an Italian media mogul. (WSJ, FT)• Some central banks have gold fever, and that might actually be sensible. (Breakingviews)• Walt Disney revealed its plans for a new service to rival Netflix. And the BBC and Discovery have joined forces for a streaming service focused on wildlife shows. (WSJ, FT)• The Federal Reserve will include high unemployment in its 2019 stress test scenarios for big banks. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault aren’t done feuding in the wake of the Carlos Ghosn scandal. (WSJ)• Business leaders should revisit their yearbooks in light of the Ralph Northam scandal. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.The strong economic growth of mid-2018 — the stock market soared, hiring picked up and consumer spending surged — reflected, in part, the benefits of a boost in fiscal stimulus. The Trump administration pushed for, and got, a huge tax cut, and then, to give the economy even more oomph, Congress passed budgets for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 that included a rare bipartisan agreement to juice spending for defense and social programs. But the effects of all that stimulus are starting to wane, and problems are emerging that make a recession in 2020 look more and more likely.Over the next few days, as American companies report earnings for 2018, the effects of all that spending will be clear: Corporate tax cuts increased profits last year, and those results will be hard to beat this year. The tax cuts were supposed to trigger an increase in investment, productivity growth and profit margins — which might have nourished future growth — but that failed to materialize. Instead, big corporations authorized a record-breaking $1 trillion in stock buybacks in 2018, according to Goldman Sachs, and made good on those announcements by returning their tax cuts to shareholders. Sure, the buybacks bumped up stock prices, but that proved fleeting, especially after the tax increases, supply-chain disruptions and uncertainty associated with tariffs and trade tensions.Individuals, too, are likely to be disappointed this year, when tax refunds as a result of the 2017 tax legislation fail to meet expectations. Many people did not withhold enough to accommodate changes in the laws, a confusion that is compounded by understaffing at the Internal Revenue Service and delays created by the just-ended government shutdown. Americans count on those refunds to pay down debt and finance big-ticket purchases. When that money isn’t forthcoming, they may be disappointed and angry. Finally, the United States isn’t likely to see any further increase in government spending — an important source of last year’s stimulus — in the current fiscal year. The Republicans have regained religion about deficits since they blew a hole in the budget with tax cuts, while former Tea Party Republicans are looking for cuts to agencies and social programs. The result is that federal spending is expected to decline later this year, and those losses will compound as we move into 2020.The length of the shutdown — 35 days — is also important, as federal employees try to catch up with assignments they missed during that time. The only benchmark for comparison was the 21-day shutdown from December 1995 to January 1996. Then, as now, contractors were especially hard hit; it can take weeks or months to get up and running again. Some of their losses were never recouped. But in 1995 and early 1996, the Federal Reserve made a cut to short-term interest rates, giving an extra lift to the economy once the shutdown ended. The tech bubble was also forming. The subsequent jump in financial markets was so powerful that it prompted Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman at the time, to worry openly about “irrational exuberance.”No one is really worried about exuberance, rational or otherwise, right now. Government spending is playing out, the Fed has been sidelined and doesn’t have a lot of room to cut rates, global growth is slowing and political leaders at home and abroad are at one another’s throats. All that has raised the risk of a 2020 recession.Before that happens, Congress and the president should do whatever they can to sustain economic growth, while we still have growth to sustain. I have been a fiscal hawk my entire professional career, and I don’t usually support deficits in times of prosperity. But there is a small window of opportunity for policymakers to act, while interest rates remain low and we have some wiggle room on taxes. Once a slowdown begins, tax revenues fall, automatic stabilizers such as unemployment insurance kick in, and the need for social services and short-term stimulus intensifies. Then, it may be more difficult to carry out the large-scale investments we need to fundamentally lift long-term growth.For now, the United States can actually afford to pay for investments in its economy. The most important investment is human capital, such as education and training for workers, but spending for that is controlled primarily by state and local governments, not Washington. Federal policymakers do have the power to invest in repairing and upgrading infrastructure, paid for by gradual increases in taxes. This has the potential to increase productivity growth, stimulate more private investment, gain bipartisan support and connect, instead of further divide, rural and urban Americans.Even that may not be enough to generate the investment desperately needed in the private sector, if the uncertainty in Washington isn’t resolved. That requires a heavier political lift. There is a major test coming up. Congress has the power to avert another government shutdown on Feb. 15, even if a border security compromise doesn’t satisfy the president. If Congress exerts its authority, that will represent an important step in the right direction.Diane Swonk is the chief economist for the audit, tax and advisory firm Grant Thornton.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Good Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.“At halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations”President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________A reminder to Facebook and Google: Don’t mess with AppleFacebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.A Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank merger seems increasingly likelyDeutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.Expect ambiguity in the jobs dataThe Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Earnings reports show looming challengesInvestors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Revolving DoorIntel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Speed ReadsDeals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Bets on Big Tech became, in Wall Street parlance, crowded last year.The belief that shares of the world’s tech giants — Alibaba, Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Baidu, Facebook, Netflix and Tencent — would continue to rise became universally popular among some of the biggest names in investing.Last quarter, sentiment reversed, and those same investors dumped their shares.Investment firms run by George Soros and David Tepper unloaded their shares of Apple during the fourth quarter, according to filings Thursday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The hedge fund Jana Partners also reduced its stake in the iPhone maker last quarter.Even Berkshire Hathaway, which has spent the past three years gobbling up shares of Apple, cut back its holdings in the company.And Apple was not the only tech titan that big investors were selling last quarter.Jana, along with Third Point, sold all its shares in Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant. Third Point exited its position in Netflix. Leon Cooperman’s firm, Omega Advisors, sold its stake in Facebook and reduced its holdings in Alphabet. And Tiger Global Management decreased its holdings in Amazon.The filings are the latest evidence of how quickly investors soured on Big Tech late last year as the industry’s woes mounted. A stream of revelations about privacy lapses and security issues had raised the specter of increased regulation on both sides of the Atlantic. But of more immediate concern for investors late last year was whether these companies could continue to grow amid a slowing global economy and an escalating trade war between China and the United States.Over the final three months of last year, tech shares dropped 13 percent to 30 percent, erasing more than $1 trillion in market value. By comparison, the S&P 500 fell 14 percent.The selling signaled a swift shift in sentiment among big hedge funds. Many of these fund managers had struggled to beat the broader market in recent years. So as tech stocks soared and drove much of the broader market’s gains, hedge funds crammed their portfolios with their shares.The selling caught the hedge fund industry off guard, and their losses mounted during the fourth-quarter tumult in the stock market.So far this year, shares of the tech companies have recovered, but most have not fared as well as the S&P 500.Earnings for the final three months of 2018 were better than investors feared, but they did not inspire confidence that Big Tech would weather a global economic slowdown well, particularly in China.Whether investors will pile back into tech stocks will probably depend on the outcome of trade talks between China and the United States. Until then, many investors may stay on the sidelines.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Fears of a looming United States recession have subsided, with investors taking comfort that the Federal Reserve will continue to support economic growth.But warning signs keep flashing about the shaky fundamentals of the economy and therefore the stock market. The latest alarm bell is that Wall Street analysts are slicing their forecasts for how much big companies will earn in the months ahead.Halfway through the first quarter of the year, analysts now expect profits of companies in the S&P 500 to decline by 1.7 percent from the same period last year, according to data from John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet.That is a sharp reversal from the start of 2019, when the same analysts predicted that corporate earnings would rise by 3.3 percent compared with the first quarter of 2018. And in October, before the stock markets entered a downward spiral at the end of the year, analysts had anticipated that first-quarter earnings would leap by 6.6 percent.Corporate profits are by no means a perfect proxy for the health of the United States economy, the world’s largest. But they exert heavy influence over the direction of the stock markets.In the first nine months of last year, for example, an unexpected gusher of company earnings — up 20 percent from their previous levels — powered the S&P 500 to record highs. The fat bottom lines allowed investors to look past both the prospect of a trade war between the United States and China and a number of data points that showed large foreign economies, including Japan and Germany, losing steam.Even in the final three months of 2018, as the United States appeared to be skidding into an economic recession, corporate profits leapt higher. Not all companies have disclosed their fourth-quarter results yet, but they are on track to be up 13.3 percent from 2017.It isn’t unusual for analysts to pare back their earnings forecasts over the course of a quarter. Corporate executives offer guidance about how their businesses are performing, and a variety of macroeconomic data helps analysts hone their profit projections. Over the past decade, analysts’ profit forecasts have declined on average by 3.7 percent over the course of a full quarter.On Dec. 31, analysts expected companies in the S&P 500 to earn, on average, $40.21 per share. Today, that estimate is $37.95 — an unusually large 5.6 percent drop, according to FactSet.If companies’ first-quarter performances turn out to be as weak as analysts expect, the United States will be on track for what the financial community calls an earnings recession, which occurs when corporate profits shrink for two straight quarters.That looks increasingly likely to happen in the first half of this year. Analysts expect earnings to rise by just 1.2 percent in the second quarter. That forecast is likely to fall, perhaps into negative territory, as more companies disclose their results and analysts update their forecasting models.The S&P 500 last endured an earnings recession in 2015 and 2016. It was set off in large part by tumbling oil prices, which eroded the profits of energy companies. During that period, a six-year stock market rally stalled, and the S&P 500 twice fell by more than 10 percent.Corporate profits this year were always going to face a difficult comparison with 2018. The combination of a strong United States economy and the newly reduced corporate tax rates led earnings to jump more than 20 percent.But profits are now under pressure on multiple fronts, and there are no new tax cuts to cushion the blow — an ill omen for the stock market, if not the broader economy. Rising costs and a slowing global economy, in particular in China, have caused many S&P 500 companies to reduce their profit outlooks for 2019.That is especially true among technology companies. Analysts expect them to report a nearly 10 percent decline in profits in the first quarter, the biggest decline of any sector in the S&P 500.Much of the blame for the tech sector’s declining fortunes rests with Apple. The company warned in early January that it was seeing diminished demand for new iPhones in China. When it reported earnings, Apple said it expected sales of $55 billion to $59 billion in the current quarter, below analysts’ expectations for $59 billion.Since the end of last year, analysts have cut by nearly 19 percent their estimates for how much Apple will earn in the first three months of the year.Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Do you have Presidents’ Day off? I hope so, and that you’re spending it someplace warm and dry, even if that’s just a nest of pillows your living room. The third week of February is the peak of winter drear, in my opinion, and we could all use a break from the gray skies and interminable drama in Washington. Whether you’re heading into a short workweek or not, here’s what to know when it starts, from the latest on President Trump and the wall to the market outlook from the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, and other business and tech news.FEB. 10-16What’s Up? A New Can of WormsSo much for negotiating. Congress passed a spending bill to keep the government open before the deadline on Friday, but the legislation only includes $1.375 billion for 55 miles of steel-post fencing along the southern border. That’s a fraction of the $5.7 billion for more than 200 miles of steel or concrete barriers that President Trump has been demanding for months. Mr. Trump responded by declaring a national emergency to tap into billions of dollars originally earmarked for other government projects. Critics view this action as an attempt to save face on his wall promises. But the move also raises questions about his executive powers, and will most likely be challenged in the courts. Not Such a Prime LocationAlexa, we hardly knew thee. Amazon abruptly canceled its plan to build a sprawling corporate campus (also known as HQ2) in New York City, citing backlash from government leaders, unions and residents. Although the company promised to bring 25,000 new jobs to the area, that wasn’t enough to drown out critics who opposed the cushy tax breaks and other financial incentives that New York lawmakers used to lure the tech giant to Long Island City, Queens. “A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward,’’ Amazon said in a statement on Thursday. It still plans to build another campus in Virginia. Tax TurmoilOh look, the dreaded tax forms in your mailbox: It’s that time again. To make this season even more painful, millions of Americans will get smaller tax refunds this year, or find that they owe money despite no changes in their salaries. Yes, the Trump administration’s tax overhaul was supposed to keep more money in your pocket, but the average refund for early filers was down 8.4 percent. What’s going on? For some taxpayers, it’s that certain deductions no longer apply. For others, it’s that less money was withheld from their pay last year. Either way, this isn’t what you want to hear from your accountant, and it could dampen consumer spending in the coming months. FEB. 17-23What’s Next? Buffett Takes StockIf you’re in the market for some corny investment jokes, look no further than Warren Buffett’s annual shareholder letter, which he will post on Saturday along with financial results for his company, Berkshire Hathaway. The third-richest man in the world, Mr. Buffett, 88, has used his yearly letters to deliver dad humor, nuggets of financial wisdom and insights into his big-picture view of the economy since 1965. Many people pore over his words for stock tips, but they’re also worth a gander if you're interested in learning from one of the most successful and experienced private investors in history. What the Fed Was ThinkingRemember when the Federal Reserve suddenly changed its mind about raising interest rates at its January policy meeting and adopted a more hands-off approach that sent markets into fits of glee? The Fed may offer more clues about its flip-flop when the minutes from that meeting become public on Wednesday. The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, has now indicated that the Fed won’t raise rates again until inflation accelerates — a reversal of previous policy. Higher rates are intended to keep the economy steady as it grows, so it’ll be interesting to learn why Fed officials felt compelled to take their hands off the levers. The Standoff Drags On. And On.If you hoped that American and Chinese officials might start making some real progress in resolving their trade war, sorry. Yet another round of talks concluded this past week with no resolution in sight, although they will continue this coming week in Washington. Mr. Trump is supposedly considering a 60-day extension to the looming March 2 deadline for a deal. If the world’s two largest economic powers can’t come to an agreement, the United States has threatened to impose punitive tariffs against Chinese goods, hurting consumers in both countries. The upside to giving negotiators more time is obvious: The tariffs could be avoided, or at least put off. The downside is that it leaves companies — and even entire industries, like soybean farming — in limbo for even longer. What Else?Surprise, surprise: Prime Minister Theresa May hit another setback over Britain’s fraught exit from the European Union when her own party splintered on Thursday. Speaking of hot water, Facebook may have earned itself a multibillion-dollar fine from the Federal Trade Commission over privacy violations. Elsewhere in big money: JPMorgan will be the first major American bank to roll out its own cryptocurrency, even though its chief executive called bitcoin “a fraud” back in 2017. And finally, can’t afford an engagement ring for your loved one? Consider this $1.30 plastic version.SAN FRANCISCO — Technology companies rarely make money before they go public. Twitter was unprofitable when it listed on the stock market. So were Snap, Spotify and SurveyMonkey.For Uber, the question as the ride-hailing giant prepares for a public offering is even bigger than whether it can make money. That’s because the company, the most prominent tech start-up of its generation, will set the bar for other well-known tech companies like Slack and Lyft as they also stampede toward the stock market this year.So far, Uber is not doing itself any favors on profits.The company reported on Friday that it had narrowed its net loss in the fourth quarter of 2018 from a year earlier. But excluding certain one-time items, including the sale of some of its businesses, Uber’s losses for the quarter rose 88 percent from the previous year, to $842 million.The losses were a result of Uber’s increasing its spending as it tries to outmuscle competitors, many of which have intensified their efforts to add riders and drivers. Uber has responded by offering bigger incentives and more promotions to fend off rivals like DoorDash, Lyft and other ride-hailing and food-delivery services.Uber made its financial disclosure as it hurtles toward what is set to be one of the biggest-ever public offerings by a tech company. A transportation colossus, Uber was privately valued at more than $70 billion last year, and proposals from investment bankers suggest that it could be worth as much as $120 billion after going public. The share sale will create enormous windfalls for Uber’s many investors, and for its founders and early employees.As a private company, Uber is not required to disclose financial results. But it has regularly done so over the past two years to inform investors about its business, and perhaps to keep the depth of its losses from coming as a surprise later.The latest set of figures, probably Uber’s last as a private company, will be closely scrutinized. Many investors initially give young and fast-growing tech start-ups a pass for losing money, but questions about whether such companies can ultimately be profitable eventually catch up with them. Investors criticized Twitter for racking up losses before it finally began to make money last year, and they have pushed down Snap’s share price since its public offering, partly because the company is still deeply unprofitable.In a statement, Uber’s chief financial officer, Nelson Chai, did not address the company’s losses. He said Uber had “maintained category leadership” in its ride-hailing business, and he noted other bright spots, including the company’s freight-management business and nascent e-bike and scooter program.Uber has a long history of spending large sums of money. Ride-hailing is inherently an expensive business that requires companies to expand into new markets for growth, pay to recruit drivers and lower prices to grab business away from competitors.Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s chief executive, has been under pressure to pare its losses, and the company has pulled out of money-losing markets like Russia and Southeast Asia.Some of the company’s losses have been overshadowed by its explosive growth. In 2018, Uber increased its total bookings — what it charges customers for rides and food delivery — to $50 billion, up 45 percent from 2017. Net revenue was $11.3 billion, a 43 percent increase.The company’s net revenue for last year’s fourth quarter was $3 billion, a 25 percent increase from a year earlier, and its gross bookings jumped 37 percent, to $14.2 billion. The company has $6.4 billion in cash, and its net loss was $865 million.But Uber’s profit margins have declined as it cut prices to match competitors and spent money on expanding its food-delivery business, Uber Eats. The margins are also smaller on Uber Eats orders because the company pays commissions to restaurants as well as delivery drivers.Uber’s self-driving car program, which will probably not yield revenue for years, continues to burn cash. The company returned its autonomous vehicles to public roads in December after a 10-month hiatus, which was prompted when one of its vehicles  fatally struck a pedestrian in Arizona.SAN FRANCISCO — In a rush to beat its rival Uber to the public market, Lyft is preparing to start trading in early April, according to two people familiar with the company’s plans.Lyft intends to begin its roadshow, in which it meets with investors to talk up the initial public offering, the week of March 18, the two people said. Companies usually start trading a week or so after a roadshow.If Lyft wins this race, it will be the first ride-hailing company to go public. The two companies have been locked in a competition to go public, with Lyft facing pressure to be first to avoid being overshadowed by Uber, which is much larger.The start-up, founded in 2007 by Logan Green and John Zimmer, is one of several tech companies pushing to go public early this year. Slack and Pinterest are among the others.Lyft and Uber declined to comment.Lyft and Uber have competed fiercely for riders and drivers since their earliest days, often introducing copycat services within days of each other. In keeping with that tradition, both filed to go public with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the same day in early December.The review of their filings stalled briefly when the government partially shut down later that month. The review process may take longer for Uber than for Lyft, because Uber is involved in several secondary businesses, like food and freight deliveries. Uber and Lyft both operate bike and scooter services, as well as self-driving car development wings.Lyft will list on the Nasdaq and expects to be valued between $20 billion and $25 billion, according to the people familiar with the company’s plans. The details about Lyft’s pending roadshow were first reported by Reuters.The Lyft listing is a win for Nasdaq, which struggled to attract tech companies after the exchange suffered delays and technical issues during Facebook’s I.P.O. and faced tough competition from the New York Stock Exchange for tech debuts. In the aftermath of the Facebook fumble, tech firms like Snap, the parent company of Snapchat, Square, and Twitter went public on the Big Board.Lyft was last valued by private investors at $15.1 billion, and has selected JPMorgan Chase to lead its public offering.BEIJING — United States officials said on Friday that they had made “progress” during a week of trade talks with their Chinese counterparts, but big sticking points remain and the two sides plan to continue negotiations next week in Washington to try to end the trade war.The United States and China are trying to reach an agreement ahead of a March 2 deadline, when President Trump has threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. On Friday, Mr. Trump suggested for the second time in a week that he would push the deadline back if the two sides were edging closer to a deal.“There is a possibility that I will extend the date,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the White House, noting the complexity of the negotiations. “I will do that at the same tariffs we are at now; I would not increase the tariffs.”Mr. Trump said the discussions with Beijing were going “extremely well” but added that the only thing that mattered was whether the two sides could reach a deal that resolved his concerns about China’s trade practices.“We’re a lot closer than we ever were in this country to having a real trade deal,” Mr. Trump said, adding that the agreement with China would cover “theft” and “unfairness.”But significant differences remain in the trade talks, and it is unclear whether they can be resolved, people briefed on the negotiations said.“These detailed and intensive discussions led to progress between the two parties,” the White House press secretary said in a statement. “Much work remains, however.”American officials said the talks focused on so-called structural reforms that the United States wanted China to make, and on China’s purchase of American goods and services. The White House said Friday that any agreement between the two countries would be included in “a memoranda of understanding between the two countries.”The most difficult and intractable issue involves the Trump administration’s desire to put meaningful restrictions on China’s ability to keep investing enormous sums of money from the government, and from government-affiliated financial institutions, in a wide range of advanced manufacturing sectors that compete with American industries. These include areas like commercial aircraft manufacturing, semiconductors and artificial intelligence.Another challenge for negotiators is that both sides perceive national security as being at stake in some cases.China has been reluctant to unblock internet access to its market for some of Silicon Valley’s biggest and most successful businesses, like Facebook and Google. It fears that without stringent censorship, everything from democratic ideas to pornography would be harder to fight.Mr. Trump said that American tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese imports were hurting China “very badly” and that it would be “an honor” to remove them if an agreement could be reached. He acknowledged that a deal of such magnitude could take more than just a few weeks.The president, speaking from the Rose Garden, added that he would most likely meet with President Xi Jinping of China “at some point” to work out any remaining differences between the two countries.The prospect of extending the March deadline has divided Mr. Trump’s economic advisers, with hard-liners such as Robert Lighthizer, the administration’s top trade negotiator, increasingly wary that China is trying to run out the clock or clinch an unenforceable deal that it will ultimately break. A delay in the deadline would be viewed internally as a win for Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, who has been pushing hard to put the trade war to rest and calm markets.Mr. Mnuchin said that he and Mr. Lighthizer had “productive meetings” with Liu He, China’s economic czar.Mr. Lighthizer and Mr. Mnuchin also met with Mr. Xi on Friday afternoon at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. Stocks in the United States were up 1 percent on Friday as optimism about the state of the negotiations calmed jittery investors.The talks did allow both sides to at least begin hashing out their differences. Both the United States and China began somewhat mechanically combining their lists of offers into a memorandum of understanding that included areas of disagreement in bracketed text, with each side’s separate views listed for each issue, people briefed on the talks said. Compiling the various offers could someday make it possible for the countries’ leaders to go through the options more systematically.But the broad areas of disagreement still left in the bracketed text mean that an actual, comprehensive understanding between the two sides remains elusive.The negotiations did not include any big new concessions by China to limit its government-led push to build high-tech industries in competition with the West, said the people, who insisted on anonymity because of the diplomatic and financial sensitivity of the talks.China Central Television, a state-controlled broadcaster, said early Friday evening on its website that progress had been made. It said the talks would continue in Washington next week.“New progress has been made on important and difficult issues,” CCTV said, without providing any details. “Although there is still a lot of work to be done, we have hope.”China is in the middle of a sharp economic slowdown, triggered partly by Beijing’s efforts to rein in debt but also by a sudden faltering in the willingness of consumers to spend and industries to invest. Many business leaders attribute the decline in consumer and investor confidence to the trade war.That economic backdrop has given Chinese leaders an incentive to emphasize progress in the talks. Mr. Mnuchin has also stressed progress, allaying worries among stock market investors. Mr. Lighthizer has said little in public while pressing for a comprehensive trade deal.The two sides have been struggling with more than 100 issues raised by the United States in a lengthy statement given to Chinese officials in May. In preparation for this week’s talks, the two sides had been unable to even agree on a draft framework for the broad outlines of a possible deal, so expectations for any comprehensive settlement had been low from the start.Many of the issues, like how to handle the tech sector, have been festering between the United States and China for a long time. Many high-tech issues are also changing and evolving along with the sector, making it especially difficult to put in place a durable agreement.“Particularly in the areas of technology regulation and standards, it will be a game of Whac-a-Mole at best,” said James Green, who was the top trade official at the United States Embassy in Beijing until August and is now a senior nonresident fellow at Georgetown University.The negotiations this week have encompassed some issues on which incremental progress has been made in recent weeks, people briefed on the negotiations said. China has agreed to disclose more of its government subsidies to the World Trade Organization, these people said.Chinese officials have also expressed a willingness to let foreign companies participate in panels that set standards on important industrial issues, like fuel-economy averages for cars. But while that might give foreign companies a glimpse of upcoming rules, they would be in a minority and might not have much influence.The Trump administration also sees national security at issue in a long list of products that the United States either already imports from China or might be likely to import in the next few years. These include many products, from nuclear reactor components to aircraft engine parts, from among the $50 billion of annual imports on which the administration imposed 25 percent tariffs in the summer.China has tried repeatedly over the past year and a half to allay American concerns about its government-subsidized investments in high-tech industries by offering to guarantee very large purchases from the United States of everything from soybeans to helicopters.In some cases, the purchase offers are being poorly received in the United States because they could distort existing supply chains. This week, China offered to ramp up purchases of American semiconductors, to the industry’s chagrin.“The reported offer by China to vastly increase its purchases of U.S. semiconductors may look good at first glance, but it’s a mirage, aimed at shuffling U.S. supply chains and driving them deeper into China,” said John Neuffer, president of the Semiconductor Industry Association. “It would also represent a significant departure from the market-driven economics that have long defined our sector and the U.S. economy.”He added: “We are confident U.S. government negotiators will see through this distraction.”The Trump administration and the American business community have mostly been leery about an agreement that centers on purchases of goods but does not address long-term issues involving China’s government-backed drive for high-tech competitiveness. Some market-oriented economists in China have also advocated limits on the government’s industrial policies, because they worry about the ever-rising debt associated with them.“If we don’t address the deeper issues, neither side will be doing itself any favors,” said Tim Stratford, who is the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China and the managing partner of the Beijing office of the Covington and Burling law firm.Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi agreed in Buenos Aires on Dec. 1 on a stopgap compromise that does not fully satisfy either side but might prove durable. Mr. Trump agreed not to raise tariffs further then but kept in place the tariffs he had already imposed, while China removed most of the retaliation that it had imposed.That deal has not satisfied trade hawks in the United States, who want broader changes in the bilateral relationship, or the more nationalistic wing of the Chinese Communist Party, which perceived the deal as representing, to some extent, a Chinese retreat.Good Friday. Want this by email? Sign up here.What Amazon’s U-turn meansAmazon yesterday canceled its plans to build a huge corporate campus in New York City.• The decision was an abrupt turnabout after a yearlong search for a second headquarters. The tech giant ultimately decided to open two new sites — in Queens and in Virginia. Each would have gained an estimated 25,000 jobs.• But Amazon faced a backlash in New York from lawmakers, activists and union leaders who said it didn’t deserve nearly $3 billion in government incentives.• “The company made its decision late Wednesday, after growing increasingly concerned that the backlash in New York showed no sign of abating and was tarnishing its image beyond the city,” J. David Goodman of the NYT writes.• “Looking at the opposition and the timeline we decided we don’t want to work in this environment in the long term,” Jodi Seth, the head of policy communications for Amazon, told NBC News.This could be a turning point for corporate-civic relations. It will surely change how companies think about doing business in certain states and cities. It’s also likely to make political leaders — especially in Democratic regions — reconsider offering tax incentives to lure business. (One big question here: Should states and cities be allowed to offer subsidies to business in the first place?)It’s also a clear sign that leftist views are gaining traction. The news is a short-term win for progressive politicians like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who are championing what they say are socialist messages. (Ms. Ocasio-Cortez appeared to revel in the decision on Twitter, saying that “anything is possible.”) But in the longer term, those lawmakers may face a backlash if the loss of those 25,000 jobs in Long Island City hurts the local economy.And it raises questions about the wider understanding of finance. “N.Y.C. wasn’t handing cash to Amazon. It was an incentive program based on job creation, producing tax revenue,” Andrew tweeted. “There isn’t a $3 billion pile of money that can now be spent on subways or education.”More: The news came as a shock even to some of the labor groups that opposed the plans. Here’s what people are saying about the decision in New York City. Real-estate brokers are in despair. And tech could keep gaining ground in the city regardless.The government will stay open. But the border fight isn’t over.President Trump looks set to sign a bipartisan deal as soon as today to provide funding for border security and the federal government. But he’s also expected to declare a national emergency to get more money to build his long-promised border wall.Everything nearly fell apart yesterday. “The president was frustrated after a briefing by Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and others on details of the final deal to avoid a shutdown,” the WaPo reports, citing unnamed officials involved in the discussions. But assertions by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, that the president had actually beaten Democrats helped sway Mr. Trump.By declaring a national emergency, Mr. Trump is hoping to gain access to billions more in federal funds. Combined with the spending bill and other ways of diverting money, he expects to get about $8 billion. (He originally asked for $5.7 billion from Congress.)There are huge concerns about the declaration. “Mr. Trump’s willingness to invoke emergency powers to circumvent Congress is likely to go down as an extraordinary violation of constitutional norms — setting a precedent that future presidents of both parties may emulate to unilaterally achieve their own policy goals,” Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.What next? House Democrats will probably try to terminate any declaration and the Senate may follow suit, Nicholas Fandos of the NYT writes. But Mr. Trump would veto that legislation, and it’s unlikely that Congress could override him. The White House could face legal battles over the declaration for years.Facebook faces a huge fine from the F.T.C.The social network is in talks with the Federal Trade Commission to settle allegations of privacy violations. It could lead to a record multibillion-dollar fine, Cecilia Kang of the NYT writes:• “The company and the F.T.C.’s consumer protection and enforcement staff have been in negotiations over a financial penalty for claims that Facebook violated a 2011 privacy consent decree with the agency.”• The investigation began shortly after the Cambridge Analytica data scandal came to light in March 2018.• “Some F.T.C. officials have pressed for maximum penalties because of several new reports of potential privacy breaches since the start of the investigation. The agency can seek up to $41,000 for each violation found by the agency. In the case of Cambridge Analytica, 87 million people were affected.”• “The current talks have not yet reached the F.T.C.’s five commissioners for a vote and it is unclear how close the two sides are to wrapping up the nearly 11-month investigation.”More Facebook news: The social network reportedly uses its apps to track people that it believes are risks to its employees.U.S.-China trade talks end with no deal in sightNegotiators concluded talks today with no official announcement of an agreement, Keith Bradsher of the NYT reports. That leaves the state of the negotiations uncertain ahead of a deadline in two weeks.• “The two sides have been struggling with more than 100 issues raised by the United States in a lengthy statement given to Chinese officials in May.”• Expectations for the talks were low, though some progress was made in the prelude to this week’s discussions. For example, China agreed to disclose more of its government subsidies to the World Trade Organization.• But big hurdles remained, Mr. Bradsher writes, including “the Trump administration’s desire to put meaningful restrictions on China’s ability to keep investing enormous sums of money from the government, and from government-affiliated financial institutions, in a wide range of advanced manufacturing sectors that compete with American industries.”• “The United States had given China a March 2 deadline toward reaching a deal and threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. But Mr. Trump suggested this week that he could give China more time if the talks showed progress.”• It’s unclear whether the talks went far enough for that extension to be granted.Pressure ratchets up for Theresa MayThe British Prime Minister suffered an embarrassing defeat over Britain’s exit from the European Union last night, Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.Her current plan lacks support. “By a margin of 303 to 258, lawmakers failed to support a motion endorsing the government’s battered strategy,” Mr. Castle writes, noting that “a fragile truce within her Conservative Party collapsed.”That could undermine her negotiations in Europe. “Mrs. May has assured European negotiators that she can get a majority for a revised Brexit plan, if they make some concessions,” Mr. Castle notes. But yesterday’s vote suggests that lawmakers still can’t coalesce around a single plan, leaving the E.U. with little incentive to budge.What now? British officials are “preparing to compromise on their demands for a rewrite of the Brexit agreement,” and may not ask the E.U. to reopen the existing withdrawal agreement, Bloomberg reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.But she’s short on time. On Feb. 27, lawmakers are expected to try again to take control of the process out of Mrs. May’s hands. That gives her two weeks to develop a plan that Parliament likes. Given the lack of progress to date, that looks like a tall order.More Brexit news: Brussels rejected calls for dual-listed shares in London and the E.U. in the event of no deal. Why the Big Board is suing the S.E.C. over price controlsThe New York Stock Exchange took the S.E.C. to court yesterday over a so-called Transaction Fee Pilot program that sorts listed stocks into categories with varying price controls. In a WSJ op-ed, Stacey Cunningham, the exchange’s president, explains why:• “The new rule amounts to an unnecessary exercise in government price-setting that will add a new layer of complexity to equity markets.”• “The Transaction Fee Pilot imposes government control on the incentives that public markets can offer. Market-maker benefits will be sharply reduced for some securities and fully eliminated for others.”• “The N.Y.S.E. voiced its concerns to the S.E.C. during its public-comment period. We argued that the pilot will undermine the ability of market forces to drive capital formation and will fail at its goal of measuring broker conflicts.”• “The S.E.C. freely admits it has no idea whether its pilot program will help or harm investors. This is a black flag that should worry the White House. The stock market is not a simulation. We operate in a real-world environment with investors’ real dollars.”Revolving doorDavid Bronczek will step down as FedEx’s president and as a director, weeks after joining its board.Tim Maly will retire as SurveyMonkey’s C.F.O. and C.O.O.The Chinese ride-hailing service Didi Chuxing reportedly plans to cut 15 percent of its work force, or about 2,000 people.The speed readDeals• Carl Icahn has reportedly taken a 10 percent stake in Caesars Entertainment and plans to push the casino operator to sell itself. (WSJ)• Ford Motor and Volkswagen are said to be near a deal to create an autonomous car venture that would be valued at $4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Berkshire Hathaway has taken a stake in Suncor Energy of Canada and bought more shares in JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. It also trimmed its holdings in Apple. (Reuters, Bloomberg)• Spotify says it spent $340 million to buy the podcasting start-ups Gimlet Media and Anchor. (TechCrunch)Politics and policy• The Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general. (NYT)• The Fed is reportedly close to figuring out how to sell its $4 trillion asset portfolio. (WSJ)• Andrew McCabe, the former No. 2 at the F.B.I., said that Justice Department officials discussed an attempt to remove President Trump from office using the 25th Amendment. (NYT)• The Economist weighs in on “millennial socialism”: “This swing within the left is not necessarily a new path to power. Indeed, many caught up in it fear quite the reverse.” (Economist)Tech• The U.S. push against Huawei hardware is difficult because carriers simply like it too much. But that isn’t stopping Samsung from doubling down on network equipment to take advantage of the situation. (WSJ, Reuters)• OpenAI, the nonprofit machine-learning company backed by Elon Musk, has developed a system capable of writing whole articles. But it won’t make the software fully public because of its ability to generate reams of compelling fake news. (MIT Technology Review)• Google’s Sidewalk Labs reportedly plans to expand its operations in Toronto. (Star)• The O.E.C.D. is trying to work out where Big Tech’s profits should be counted — and, by extension, which nations should reap the tax revenue. (WSJ)• Could China use medical data to blackmail you? (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Michael Sanchez, the brother of Lauren Sanchez, with whom Jeff Bezos had an affair, denied any involvement in leaking their text messages. (Vanity Fair)• XPO Logistics plans to close the warehouse where some pregnant workers miscarried. (NYT)• A former Goldman Sachs banker, Roger Ng, who is charged with fraud in the 1MDB case, will return to the U.S. (NYT)• PG&E’s bankruptcy highlights some of the big issues in green investing. (WSJ)• The 10 highest-paid hedge fund managers made a combined $7.7 billion in 2018. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.China trade talks turn to currencyThis week’s trade negotiations between the U.S. and China will have to bridge a lot of gulfs between the two countries. One particularly tricky issue is that Washington wants Beijing to adopt a policy that would keep the value of China’s currency stable. More on that from Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources:• “While the precise wording remains unresolved, a pledge of yuan stability has been discussed in multiple rounds of talks in recent months and both sides have tentatively agreed it will be part of the framework of any final deal.”• “The Trump administration has been clear in its talks with Beijing that any attempt to depreciate the yuan — a strategy aimed at offsetting existing U.S. duties on Chinese imports — would be met with more or higher American tariffs.”• But currency stability may be at odds with other policies. “A U.S. request for Beijing to keep the yuan from depreciating is also potentially difficult to square with Trump and past U.S. administrations’ calls for China to adopt more market-driven reforms and complaints that Beijing manipulates its currency to gain a trade advantage.”There are other contentious issues. The FT rated the chances of success of several critical issues being discussed this week, from stronger protections of intellectual property rights (likely to happen) to the cessation of hacking (much less likely).And any deal would need enforcement measures. CNBC reports that unidentified officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believe a deal would be meaningless if there aren’t mechanisms such as automatic tariff increases to punish China if it fails to keep its promises.But there appears to be less time pressure. President Trump said yesterday that the March 1 deadline for reaching an agreement “is not a magical date,” adding that “a lot of things can happen.”Can Theresa May get what she wants from Brussels?The British prime minister is meeting with European officials today in an attempt to reach a final compromise that would save her Brexit plan. It won’t be easy.Her goal is to revise the deal. “The British government sees May’s meeting on Wednesday with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a crucial chance to get legally binding changes” to the agreement, Bloomberg reports.She has dropped some controversial ideas to help her position. The FT reports that the notion of using technology to solve issues surrounding the Irish border — a plan considered unworkable by E.U. officials — has been abandoned.But Europe still isn’t budging. “There isn’t enough movement for me to be able to expect this to be a discussion with a concrete outcome,” Mr. Juncker said yesterday, later adding “I’m losing my time with this Brexit,” according to Bloomberg.More Brexit news: Britain is unlikely to secure trade deals with Japan and South Korea before it exits the E.U. Another lawmaker has left Britain’s opposition Labour Party to join a newly formed independent group. Three Conservative Party lawmakers have also resigned to join the new group. Honda may move some of the British production of its Civic model to the U.S. — and other Japanese automakers may also leave the country.How a Bernie Sanders presidency would affect businessThe Vermont senator finally tossed his hat into the 2020 ring yesterday, becoming the latest candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination. Mr. Sanders quickly became one of the most formidable candidates: He raised more than $4 million from individual donors in just one day and retains a big fan base from his 2016 run.CNBC breaks down how Mr. Sanders would affect the business world should he become president:• His Medicare-for-all concept, introduced in 2017, proposes moving Americans away from private health insurance to a government-provided policy. He has also pressed to cut drug prices.• He has long criticized big banks, and has fought to break up institutions like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs. Earlier this month, he also teamed up with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, on legislation to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock.• He wants a higher minimum wage of $15 an hour, and has put pressure on Amazon, Walmart and other companies to follow suit.But there’s a big caveat to his 2020 odds. As Sydney Ember of the NYT notes: “Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers.”California and the U.S. hit an impasse over vehicle standardsTalks between state and federal officials on vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards have broken down, Bloomberg reported, citing unnamed sources:• The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had been meeting with California’s Air Resources Board to try and compromise on a replacement for Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.• “The breakdown in talks adds to tension between Washington and Sacramento, which has emerged as a major antagonist to the Trump administration.”• “No further discussions are scheduled over the critical auto industry rules, said the people, who asked to not be identified discussing the private talks.”• California is America’s biggest auto market, and as such has set a de facto national standard for auto emissions.How Trump tried to stymie investigationsThe NYT took a deep dive into how President Trump has sought to clamp down on the many investigations that touch upon his presidency over the past two years. Among the incidents the newspaper uncovered:He tried to install a loyalist as head of the Michael Cohen inquiry. “He asked whether Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a Trump ally, could be put in charge of the widening investigation, according to several American officials with direct knowledge of the call,” the NYT reports. The acting attorney general at the time, Matthew Whitaker, demurred.He wanted a misleading public statement about Michael Flynn’s resignation. As White House officials discussed how to explain the departure of Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, amid an F.B.I. investigation, the president asked Sean Spicer, then the press secretary, to say he had requested Mr. Flynn’s resignation. When Mr. Spicer asked if that was true, Mr. Trump responded, “Say that I asked for his resignation.”He has sought to discredit the special counsel, Robert Mueller. With the arrival of Rudy Giuliani on his legal team, Mr. Trump “decided to combine a legal strategy with a public relations campaign in an aggressive effort to undermine the credibility of both Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department,” the NYT reports. The result: Polls last summer showed more Americans distrusted Mr. Mueller, prompting Mr. Giuliani to say, “I think we’ve done really well.”The S.E.C. wants to make I.P.O.s easierThe Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a proposal yesterday that would let all companies — not just certain small ones — confidentially discuss potential I.P.O. plans with investors before committing to the process, the WSJ reports:• “The conversations would allow companies to identify information that is important to investors and to gauge market interest before formally announcing a public offering.”• “Currently, large companies must publicly file their securities offering documents to regulators before gauging investor interest.”• “Making it easier and more appealing for companies to go public has been a central goal of S.E.C. Chairman Jay Clayton. The number of public companies has fallen by nearly 50 percent since the late 1990s.”• But this potential change isn’t as revolutionary as others the S.E.C. has proposed, Anna Pinedo of the law firm Mayer Brown told the WSJ. “It’s not going to single-handedly change if a company was going to decide to go public or not,” she said.Walmart had a great quarter — and an awful morningThe American retail giant is riding high after a banner earnings report yesterday, with its shares up as much as 4 percent in Tuesday trading. Here’s why:• Profits rose 69 percent to $3.69 billion.• Online sales were up 43 percent during the quarter, matching the company’s goal.• Same-store sales in the U.S. were up 4.2 percent in the quarter, above the 3.2 percent that analysts had expected.But Britain’s competition regulator dealt it bad news this morning by essentially blocking the company’s plan to merge its Asda grocery chain with J Sainsbury. The move hinders Walmart’s effort to shed the underperforming business, since it’s unclear how the American retailer can divest it.Why housing (probably) won’t start a recessionThe U.S. may be on the brink of a recession, but housing is unlikely to be the cause, Conor Dougherty of the NYT writes. Here’s why:• “The housing sector accounts for as little as 3 percent of economic output during recessions and about twice that during booms. Other pieces of the economy are much bigger, but they don’t change nearly as much from boom to bust.”• “The most recent recession, from 2007 to 2009, offered one of the more exaggerated examples of housing’s guiding role in downturns. A recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis found that the construction sector accounted for a little over a third of the decline in output in the past recession.”• “How does housing look now? Mixed, but mixed in such a way that the things most important to economic growth are the most stable.”• “When economists talk about a recession in housing, they largely refer to construction, not home prices,” and “construction is bordering on moribund.”• “In other words: Housing is in recession already. It might not get better soon, but it probably won’t get worse.”Revolving doorPresident Trump will nominate Jeffrey Rosen as deputy attorney general, replacing Rod Rosenstein.Marc Short, who was President Trump’s legislative director for two years, has become Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff.Lindsay Walters, a White House deputy press secretary, will leave in April to join Edelman, the P.R. firm.CNN hired Sarah Isgur Flores, the Justice Department’s spokeswoman under Jeff Sessions, as a political editor in Washington.The speed readDeals• Carl Icahn publicly urged Caesars Entertainment to sell itself. (Reuters)• BlackRock and KKR are reportedly in talks to invest as much as $5 billion in Abu Dhabi’s oil pipeline network. (FT)• PepsiCo agreed to buy Muscle Milk from Hormel for an undisclosed amount, the first acquisition under its new C.E.O. (Bloomberg)• Just Inc., the maker of egg-free mayonnaise, is reportedly seeking $200 million in new funding. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• A majority of Americans back Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a system of universal child care, which would be paid for by her plan to increase taxes on the wealthy. (NYT)• The Trump administration wants California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money spent on the state’s high-speed rail efforts. (NYT)• A federal ethics watchdog refused to certify financial disclosures by the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. (CNBC)Tech• Microsoft says hackers associated with Russian intelligence tried to breach European think tanks and nonprofit organizations in the run-up to elections in May. (NYT)• Germany is reportedly leaning toward allowing Huawei technology in its wireless networks. A British defense think tank has called the use of the Chinese company’s technology on 5G networks “irresponsible.” (WSJ, FT)• Blockchains were supposed to be unhackable. Maybe they’re not. (MIT Technology Review)• A federal judge delayed a lawsuit about a Pentagon cloud computing contract — that Amazon was expected to win — over “new information” about possible conflicts of interest in the procurement process. (WSJ)• QuadrigaCX customers are trying to hunt down funds currently locked away because they’re secured by a password known only to the company’s late C.E.O. (WSJ)Best of the rest• McKinsey & Company will return $15 million in fees to resolve an investigation into allegations that it did not make required disclosures while working on bankruptcies. (NYT)• Nissan and Renault look set to clash over whether they should share the same new chairman. (FT)• The extradition to the U.S. of Roger Ng, a former Goldman Sachs banker who faces fraud charges over his involvement in the 1MDB scandal, could be delayed. (Bloomberg)• Why HSBC’s bankers should prepare for lower bonuses. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Lacking financial joy? “How to ‘Marie Kondo’ your investment portfolio.” (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Tuesday. Breaking: Karl Lagerfeld, the influential fashion designer and longtime creative director of Chanel, has died at 85. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Did McKinsey sell advice with a stake in the outcome?As McKinsey & Company advised some of the biggest companies in the world, the NYT reports, it may have had a vested interest in the outcome, through a little-known in-house hedge fund that holds stakes in some of the firm’s clients.Little about the fund, the McKinsey Investment Office, is public. A large part of its approximately $12.3 billion in holdings is “concealed behind a tangle of shell companies in an island tax haven in the English Channel,” the NYT reports. As a result, “any intersections between McKinsey’s consulting work and the fund’s investments are largely hidden.”The office took a stake in Valeant, the drug maker that was advised by McKinsey and is accused of improperly raising pharmaceutical prices. It also invested in Puerto Rican bonds while the firm advised the island on how to deal with its debt.McKinsey says there’s no conflict of interest.  It insists the office is run separately from its consulting operations, and that 90 percent of its funds are run by outside managers.But it faces increasing skepticism about that from Congress and in various lawsuits. “A federal judge in Virginia last month reopened a coal-company bankruptcy case after learning that McKinsey had not disclosed, as required by law, that it was also among the company’s secured creditors, through MIO,” the NYT reports. Trump’s plan to fund his wall heads to courtA coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, sued the Trump administration yesterday over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on a border wall, Charlie Savage and Robert Pear of the NYT report:• “The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute.”• “Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border.”• “The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests.”• “Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers.”Will more U.S.-China trade talks deliver a deal?After a series of discussions between America and China in Beijing last week that President Trump called “very productive,” negotiators reopen their conversations in Washington this week.What’s happening: Negotiations kick off today. Then on Thursday and Friday, Vice Premier Liu He of China will meet with the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, according to Bloomberg.What to expect: The Trump administration “is racing to strike a deal that will result in long-term reforms,” according to the WSJ, which notes that such a pact would “prove that tariffs are an effective battering ram to open markets around the world.”But it’s not done yet. Despite Mr. Trump tweeting that “big progress being made on soooo many different fronts!” in these trade negotiations so far, the WSJ reports that “people briefed on the negotiations said big outstanding differences remain.”More trade news: Why Mr. Trump may want to keep car tariffs in his back pocket. HSBC says the U.S.-China trade war is why it missed its profit targets. Theresa May scrambles as parties splinterWith just over a week to go before a crucial vote, the British prime minister is facing shifting groupings in Parliament and a difficult diplomatic mission to the E.U.Britain’s parties are splitting. Seven lawmakers have left Labour, the main opposition party, and formed a new Independent Group that might push for another referendum on Brexit. While initial reactions were largely unimpressed, the Telegraph reports that their ranks could swell, and that some members of Mrs. May’s Conservative party may also join.And Mrs. May is running out of time. There are nine days left until a parliamentary vote that could seize control of the Brexit process from her. So this week, Bloomberg reports, she is mounting a last-ditch diplomatic push:• “The British prime minister is planning to meet European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker this week.”• “Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt will travel to Berlin, Brussels and Copenhagen, while Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay is continuing his dialogue with the E.U.’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier.”• “Attorney General Geoffrey Cox — a key voice in the Brexit debate inside Cabinet — will set out in a speech expected on Tuesday how the most contentious part of the Brexit deal, the so-called backstop plan for the Irish border, could be changed.”But the E.U. isn’t budging yet. “We are happy to revisit anything that would clarify the situation without reopening the withdrawal agreement,” a spokesman for the European Commission, Margaritis Schinas, said.More Brexit news: The Japanese automaker Honda plans to close its plant in Swindon, England, which employs 3,500 people, though it didn’t blame Brexit. Wall Street banks are moving out of London — but not to any single European financial capital.Is Facebook a ‘digital gangster’?A British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report yesterday that accuses Facebook of breaking data privacy and competition laws and calls for tighter regulations, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports:• “The parliamentary report recommends the creation of a British watchdog to oversee the technology industry, similar to the country’s approach to regulating media companies.”• “Companies like Facebook should not be allowed to behave like ‘digital gangsters’ in the online world, considering themselves to be ahead of and beyond the law,” the report argues.• Mr. Satariano also notes that the report “suggested legally requiring Facebook and other large internet platforms to remove what the government determines to be harmful content, or risk fines or other punishments.” Facebook may not be worried. The committee can’t change regulations on its own, Mr. Satariano notes, while Alex Webb of Bloomberg Opinion points out that “Britain’s divorce from the European Union could seriously impair its capacity to rein in the giants of U.S. tech.”More Facebook news: Why it’s getting serious about building its own A.I. chips. And why researchers are worried about how Facebook promotes Groups.What’s really in your index fund?Index funds, with low fees and broad exposure to the markets, are supposed to be one of the best ways to play the stock market. But Robert Jackson Jr., an S.E.C. commissioner, and Steven Davidoff Solomon of the University of California, Berkeley, point out problems with those funds in an NYT Op-Ed:• “The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors.”• “There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted.”• “That’s why we’re calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans’ investment dollars are allocated.”The corporate V.C. gold rushIndependent venture capital funds like Sequoia and Andreessen Horowitz may grab headlines, but corporate investment funds have quietly been investing faster than ever, according to a report by CB Insights. Here are some highlights:Corporate V.C.s broke records in 2018, putting $53 billion into 2,740 deals worldwide, a high on both measures.They tended to spend more than noncorporate V.C.s. The average corporate venture deal size was $26.3 million, compared to $21.8 million for a standard V.C. transaction.Companies are rushing to set up funds. The number of corporate V.C. funds investing for the first time reached 264 last year, up 35 percent from 2017 and over 300 percent from 2013.China is playing a big role. Two of the top five most active corporate V.C. funds last year were Baidu.ventures and Legend Capital, despite trade tensions between Washington and Beijing. (The most active was GV, Alphabet’s early-stage venture arm.)Exclusive: Kasowitz hires a top antitrust lawyerThe law firm Kasowitz Benson Torres will announce as soon as today that it has hired Kevin Arquit, a leading antitrust lawyer in the U.S., from Weil, Gotshal & Manges to lead its antitrust and competition team.Mr. Arquit’s background: He worked at the Federal Trade Commission from 1986 to 1992, where he eventually become the director of its bureau of competition. Then he went into private practice, working on matters like DirecTV’s sale to AT&T and the defense of the poultry producer Pilgrim’s Pride in a price-fixing lawsuit.What’s ahead in antitrust: Mr. Arquit told DealBook that he thinks things are going to become more aggressive.• He sees more companies going to court against regulators like the Justice Department and the F.T.C., which he says have become more demanding.• “In some of those cases, it’s become so extreme,” he said, pointing to the Justice Department’s handling of the AT&T-Time Warner deal. He added, “The only way to deal with that is to push back.”Revolving doorKen Hitchner, the chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs’s Asia Pacific operations, is reportedly retiring.Rod Rosenstein is expected to leave the Justice Department next month.Apple hired Sam Jadallah, the C.E.O. of a failed smart lock start-up, reportedly to lead a smart-home initiative.The speed readDeals• Two of the biggest investors in SoftBank’s Vision Fund, Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi, are reportedly unhappy with how it’s being run. And credit ratings agencies are worried about SoftBank’s debt levels. (WSJ, Business Insider)• Navient, the student loan company, rejected a $3.2 billion takeover bid by Canyon Capital and Platinum Equity. (CNBC)• Tiger Global has reportedly sold its stake in Barclays, leaving the British bank without a key ally as it fends off the activist investor Edward Bramson. (FT)• How Mithril Capital, part of Peter Thiel’s Silicon Valley empire, turned into a mess. (Recode)• Might James Dolan finally sell the New York Knicks? (Daily News)Politics and policy• Barack Obama is quietly advising potential Democratic presidential contenders — but is unlikely to endorse one. (NYT)• How Senator Elizabeth Warren’s wealth tax would work. (Upshot)• Big-money Democratic donors reportedly favor Joe Biden for president in 2020. (Fox Business)• Senator Kamala Harris defended her support of the Green New Deal and Medicare for All, but said she wasn’t a democratic socialist. (NYT)Tech• A shake-up at Apple suggests services, not smartphones, are its future focus. (WSJ)• How Amazon might expand without a New York campus. And how it’s rebooting its movie division. (WSJ, NYT)• Huawei’s founder called U.S. charges against the company and his daughter “politically motivated.” Ericsson’s C.E.O. said that fears about Huawei’s hardware could slow down Europe’s 5G rollout, but British intelligence officials say the company’s equipment poses only a “manageable risk” of Chinese spying. (NYT, FT)• Australia blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for hacking its Parliament’s computer system. Meanwhile Chinese and Iranian hackers have renewed attacks on U.S. companies. (NYT)Best of the rest• U.S. companies now have to disclose operating leases on their balance sheets, potentially adding $3 trillion to corporate America’s liabilities. (CNBC)• Why Senator Marco Rubio’s plan to tax stock buybacks might be seriously flawed — and why they will be a huge topic for the 2020 elections. (National Review, Axios)• Americans are defaulting on car loans in record numbers. (Axios)• Contradictory data is confusing economists. (WSJ)• Most Americans, in every state except Vermont, would fail the U.S. citizenship exam. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Thursday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks progress, with fears of overcompromiseAmerican and Chinese officials have reportedly begun to hash out documents that could form the basis of a trade deal, but there are growing concerns that leaders of both nations are softening on key demands. More on the progress from Bloomberg, citing an unidentified source:• Several memorandums of understanding “would cover areas including agriculture, non-tariff barriers, services, technology transfer and intellectual property, said the person.”• “The enforcement mechanism remains unclear, but would likely be a threat that tariffs would be reimposed if conditions aren’t met, the person said.”• “No breakthrough is expected during this week’s talks,” though an extension to a March 1 deadline is still a possibility.But there’s a new fear surrounding the deal. According to Lingling Wei and Bob Davis of the WSJ, there are “growing concerns on the home front” in both America and China that their leaders — and President Trump in particular — are “going to cave in to the other side”:• Some officials reportedly believe Mr. Trump is “tiring of the trade dispute and is poised to cut a deal that won’t lead to fundamental changes by China.”• “American Enterprise Institute China scholar Derek Scissors said that U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, a China hawk, holds significant leverage over Mr. Trump to keep to a hard line — including, potentially, the threat of resigning if the deal falls short.”More trade news: Mr. Trump reportedly continues to consider E.U. car tariffs — levies that Volkswagen says could cost it billions of euros per year. And is the clothes maker American Giant, which makes all its products in the U.S., a model for Mr. Trump’s ambitions?Wall Street sees profits in helping Main StreetHedge funds and investment banks think they’ve found a big new moneymaker, according to Matt Goldstein and Jim Tankersley of the NYT: so-called opportunity funds, part of President Trump’s tax package to steer money to poor areas by offering large tax breaks.• “More than 80 of the funds have sprung up since January 2018, even though the Trump administration has not finalized regulations governing them.”• The pitch to potential investors: outsize returns while fighting poverty.• The provision that created opportunity funds “lowers capital gains taxes — potentially dramatically — for investors who finance projects in about 8,700 so-called opportunity zones spread across the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.”• The financial benefit? “An investor who keeps money in such a fund for 10 years is able to exclude 15 percent of the original capital gain from taxation. And — potentially much more lucratively — the investor would not owe taxes on any gains that accrued if the investment increased in value in that time.”• “Skeptics worry that the funds will mostly target real estate and other projects that probably would have attracted investment even without the tax break, and may not deliver the returns being dangled.”Theresa May could be making progress on BrexitThe British prime minister was in Brussels yesterday to press for changes that could save her Brexit deal. She may finally be making some headway, though she still needs to convince lawmakers of any changes to her plan.She made her case to the E.U. In discussions with the European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, she pressed for “legally binding changes” to her existing deal that she hopes will make it palatable to British lawmakers. Britain’s attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, and Brexit secretary, Steve Barclay, are expected to propose wordings for those legal tweaks today.Some progress may have been made. “A Brexit agreement is already being hammered out in Brussels, according to Spain’s foreign minister, as the bloc seeks reassuring language that can convince British members of Parliament to back the deal,” Bloomberg explains.But the E.U. may demand that any changes are first approved in Britain. The E.U. “doesn’t want to call leaders for a summit to sign off on changes that are then rejected by the U.K. Parliament,” Bloomberg reports, adding that “once there’s an agreement, it should be tested in Parliament, and only after that will leaders be asked to sign off on it at a summit.” And it is far from clear that lawmakers would approve.More Brexit news: Nine more Conservative party lawmakers have reportedly said that they could resign from the party in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The credit agency Fitch may downgrade Britain’s double-A rating over concerns about Brexit. Europe isn’t convinced by Trump’s war on HuaweiThe White House has spent the last year trying to convince Europe that the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei is a national security threat and shouldn’t be given any role in developing new wireless networks. So far, that plan doesn’t appear to be working.British officials don’t seem to agree with the White House. “Ciaran Martin, who leads Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, expressed confidence at a conference in Brussels that any security risks Huawei posed could be managed,” Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.Nor do those in Germany. The news follows a WSJ report yesterday that said “the German government is leaning toward letting Huawei Technologies Co. participate in building the nation’s high-speed internet infrastructure.”“If Britain does not ban Huawei, it would be a defeat for the White House,” Mr. Satariano writes. “Because Britain belongs to the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance with the United States, whatever it decides on Huawei is likely to affect how other countries treat the company.”Deutsche Bank lost $1.6 billion on a Buffett-related betThe German lender suffered one of its biggest-ever trading losses from a decade-long wager on a municipal-bond investment that spiraled out of control, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.• The bank bought $7.8 billion worth of municipal bonds in 2007, later covered with insurance purchased from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.• The WSJ says Deutsche Bank “resisted for years reducing the value of those bonds and related derivatives on its books to a level that markets suggested they were worth,” and dismissed concerns from auditors.• “Internally, the bank acknowledged losses on the trade only incrementally. After it finally liquidated the position nine years after buying the bonds, bank executives debated whether to restate past financial results, but never did so.”• Deutsche Bank finally liquidated the position in the summer of 2016, after its C.E.O. at the time, John Cryan, demanded the trade be wound down.• “The prolonged struggle over how to handle the investment sheds light on cultural and financial challenges inside one of Europe’s biggest banks that have hampered its ability to compete with stronger U.S. rivals.”More Deutsche Bank news: Executives were reportedly so worried about the Trump Organization defaulting on $340 million in loans during the Trump presidency that they discussed extending repayment dates until 2025.France fines UBS $4.2 billion in tax evasion caseThe Swiss bank was hit by one of France’s biggest-ever financial penalties yesterday for helping wealthy French clients hide money from the authorities.The judgment was seven years in the making. French authorities began investigating after whistle-blowers tipped them off. According to the NYT, prosecutors said that UBS bankers in France eager for big bonuses “had alerted their counterparts in Switzerland to potential ‘big potatoes’ ” — French citizens with assets of at least €500,000, or about $560,000.Bankers used “James Bond” methods to hide their work. They “followed a UBS ‘security governance manual’ that included instructions for using encrypted computers, using business cards without the bank’s logo and switching hotels frequently,” according to the NYT.UBS will appeal. The firm said that the case was “based on the unfounded allegations of former employees,” and its C.E.O. derided the verdict as “superficial” and “astounding.”Pedophile comments spur a YouTube ad boycottMajor companies including Nestlé and Epic Games said yesterday that they had stopped buying ads on Google’s video platform. The reason, the NYT reports: Pedophiles were swarming the comment sections of children’s videos.The companies acted after a user posted a video that pointed out that innocent videos of youngsters were being overrun with suggestive comments aimed at the children.The video’s creator, Matt Watson, accused YouTube of “facilitating the sexual exploitation” of children. He added that the site’s recommendation system guided predators to other videos featuring minors.A Google spokeswoman said the company had taken action by deleting accounts and offensive comments. “Any content — including comments — that endangers minors is abhorrent and we have clear policies prohibiting this on YouTube,” she said.Inside the final throes of TheranosAt this point, the blood-testing company is over. But Nick Bilton of Vanity Fair writes that in its final months, Theranos’s founder, Elizabeth Holmes, tried to abandon a high-spending lifestyle and attempted to convince employees that everything was O.K.:• “Holmes had a hard time weaning herself off certain luxuries. She still had her own personal security detail, drivers, personal assistants and a personal publicist who was on retainer for $25,000 a month.”• “By late 2017, however, Holmes had begun to slightly rein in the spending.” She agreed to give up her private-jet travel, and moved the company’s premises from Palo Alto to Newark, to premises that former employees called “crummy.”• “Yet through all of this, former employees of the company have told me, Holmes had a bizarre way of acting like nothing was wrong. Even more peculiarly, she appeared happy. ‘The company is falling apart, there are countless indictments piling up, employees are leaving in droves, and Elizabeth is just weirdly chipper,’ a former senior executive told me.”America’s professional elite: rich and miserable?Those in the upper echelon are hoarding money and privilege to a degree not seen in decades. But that doesn’t make them happy at work, Charles Duhigg writes in the NYT:• “A surprising portion of Americans are professionally miserable right now. In the mid-1980s, roughly 61 percent of workers told pollsters they were satisfied with their jobs. Since then, that number has declined substantially, hovering around half, according to data collected by the Conference Board, a nonprofit research organization.”• “Even among professionals given to lofty self-images, like those in medicine and law, other studies have noted a rise in discontent.”• “Why? Based on my own conversations with classmates and the research I began reviewing, the answer comes down to oppressive hours, political infighting, increased competition sparked by globalization, an ‘always-on culture’ bred by the internet — but also something that’s hard for these professionals to put their finger on, an underlying sense that their work isn’t worth the grueling effort they’re putting into it.”Revolving doorDane Butswinkas is stepping down as Tesla’s general counsel, only two months after joining the carmaker from the law firm Williams & Connolly.Keith Rabois, the veteran investor, is leaving Khosla Ventures for Founders Fund, the venture capital firm run by his longtime friend Peter Thiel.Robin Phillips, a co-head of HSBC’s global banking division, will reportedly step down this summer.Serena Williams joined the board of Poshmark, an online retailer.The speed readDeals• Lyft plans to begin its I.P.O. roadshow on March 18, paving the way to begin trading publicly on the Nasdaq stock market by early April. (NYT)• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value nominated five directors to Bristol-Myers Squibb’s board, a potential attempt to derail the drugmaker’s acquisition of Celgene. (Bloomberg)• With Sainsbury and other major British retailers out as buyers for Walmart’s Asda unit, will a private equity firm step in? (Bloomberg)• The C.E.O. of Kraft Heinz says that food company valuations have become “more attractive” recently, suggesting he may try to strike deals. (FT)Politics and policy• The Justice Department reportedly could announce that Robert Mueller has completed his Russia investigation as soon as next week. (CNN)• Coal companies hired Bill Wehrum’s law firm to fight Obama-era environmental rules — then Mr. Wehrum joined President Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency. (Politico)• House Democrats plan to introduce a bill blocking President Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall by tomorrow. (Politico)• A disinformation campaign aimed at Democratic presidential candidates like Senators Kamala Harris and Bernie Sanders is underway. Foreign state actors appear to be involved. (Politico)Tech• Apple is reportedly working on a way for developers to create one app that works on iPhones, iPads and Macs. (Bloomberg)• Samsung thinks it has seen the future of smartphones — and it’s a folding device that will cost almost $2,000. (NYT)• Digital ad spending in the U.S. is expected to surpass nondigital this year. (Axios)• Mark Zuckerberg says that an ad-free Facebook isn’t quite as straightforward as it sounds. (Recode)Best of the rest• Court documents revealed that the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase plans to redesign health insurance, among other things. (WSJ)• The Fed paused interest rate rises because “the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened.” (NYT)• The Justice Department and S.E.C. are investigating Johnson & Johnson over concerns about possible asbestos contamination of its popular baby powder. (NYT)• The S.E.C. is now investigating Danske Bank over its money-laundering scandal. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Euan Robertson started his job with New York City’s economic development team at an ominous moment. It was Monday, Sept. 15, 2008, the day Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy and ignited the financial crisis.Mr. Robertson made his way through City Hall’s sprawling open office to a conference table, where he huddled with top advisers to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.“No one knew what was going to happen or how bad it would be,” Mr. Robertson recalled. “But everyone agreed we’d better come up with a plan.”The plan that emerged called for developing tech start-ups and tech workers in New York. The goal, Mr. Robertson said, was to “build a talent engine” that would help make the city a magnet for coders and companies.A decade later, there is ample evidence that the city is well on its way to achieving that goal. Amazon’s sudden decision last week to abandon its plan to build a big campus in Queens, in the face of protests from some local politicians and community activists, is a setback — but not one that reverses tech’s climb in the city.Amazon already employs 5,000 workers in New York, and the city’s talent pool was the main reason, the company said, that it selected New York in November. In December, Google announced a major expansion that could double its New York work force to 14,000 over the next decade, without the rich government incentives that proved a lightning rod for the Amazon deal.Today, the city is home to thousands of fledgling companies, and the New York region regularly ranks second to the Bay Area in attracting venture capital, the lifeblood of the start-up economy. The city’s tech sector has become a wellspring of jobs paying more than $150,000 on average, a major part of the local economy.The story of tech’s ascent in New York stretches back nearly two decades. It was a bumpy path, with progress both by design and serendipity. DoubleClick, a survivor of the dot-com crash and a digital advertising pioneer, and Google, which made an early bet on the city, played key roles. And the Bloomberg administration also made smart policy moves.But tech in New York took hold mainly because entrepreneurs, technologists and corporations chose the city as the place to work and live, just as the city’s industries were undergoing digital transformations, according to interviews with more than two dozen people who contributed to the city’s evolution into a tech center.“The truth is, we caught a wave,” said Seth Pinsky, the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation from 2008 to 2013.Many of the city’s tech jobs are not in technology companies. Instead, they are tied to industries where the city has long been positioned as a world leader — like finance, advertising and media. Those businesses face threats from the rise of the digital age, and have adapted to compete, helping to revitalize the city’s economy in the process. There are twice as many technology jobs in non-tech industries in New York as there are in technology companies, according to Emsi, a labor market research firm.New York’s confidential proposal to Amazon, code-named Project Clancy, which is filled with detailed data on the city work force and labor market, points to the change. Amazon asked, for example, which companies had the most job openings in machine learning, a fundamental artificial intelligence skill. The top four, according to the proposal, were JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and KPMG. Tied for fifth place were Amazon and Google.[Read more: For the labor movement, tech giants present a quandary.]Skilled tech workers now flock to New York from everywhere. But the homegrown talent engine that city officials sought to jump-start a decade ago is also revving up. The new Cornell Tech graduate school campus on Roosevelt Island, a product of the city’s development plan, has 300 students, with expansion plans for a student population of 2,000 over the next two decades. And new courses, buildings and research institutes are underway at Columbia, New York University and the City University of New York.And they are being lured by urban amenities — museums, theater, opera, dance, jazz clubs, art galleries, bars and restaurants — that offer a clear alternative to life in suburban Silicon Valley.“The main resource in technology is smart people,” said Kevin Ryan, a longtime tech entrepreneur. “The New York tech sector is succeeding largely because New York is succeeding.”Tech’s Long New York PastAnyone designing hardware, writing code, or using a computer or a smartphone today owes a debt to the innovations developed in metropolitan New York decades ago. The first widely adopted programming language, Fortran, was created in 1957 by young coders working for IBM in an office on East 56th Street. Their wintertime breaks were snowball fights in Central Park. Researchers at Bell Labs, located first in Manhattan and then suburban New Jersey, invented the transistor, the Unix operating system, and the C and C++ programming languages — building blocks of modern computing.Technology innovation eventually migrated outside New York. Minicomputer makers sprang up in the Boston suburbs. But the larger move was westward, beginning in the late 1960s, when first the semiconductor business and later the personal computer industry took root in sunny Northern California.The 1990s internet boom opened the door to New York entrepreneurs, especially in the field of new media, with ventures like Feed and Suck, popular web magazines. Start-ups clustered in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, an area known as Silicon Alley.When theGlobe.com, an early social media website, went public in late 1998, its shares soared more than 600 percent, a record at the time. TheGlobe.com, like so many start-ups in Silicon Alley and Silicon Valley, collapsed when the dot-com bubble burst a couple of years later.Amid the dot-com meltdown, though, there was a contrarian bet on the city, unnoticed at the time, by a fledgling start-up: Google.The Rise of GoogleIn the late summer of 2000, Timothy Armstrong, at 29, qualified as an internet veteran. Mr. Armstrong helped create or became a senior manager at a string of ventures, and had a solid track record in internet sales and marketing when he met with Omid Kordestani, head of sales at Google.The company was looking to expand, and Mr. Kordestani arranged a meeting between Mr. Armstrong and its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, in Silicon Valley.The thinking at Google, Mr. Armstrong recalled, was little more than that the company wanted a big advertising business, and New York was where the ad money was. He signed a one-page contract with no guarantees.“The idea was, if it doesn’t work out, no harm, no foul,” Mr. Armstrong said.He became Google’s first employee in New York, working from his apartment on West 86th Street. The company was not yet two years old, the internet boom had crested, and ad agencies and consumer product companies were skeptical about the start-up’s offering — text ads linked to search results.Mr. Armstrong wanted to buy a fax machine to handle ad orders and billing. Mr. Page and Mr. Brin told him they wanted to see the orders before approving the purchase.“That’s how unsure people were about internet advertising,” Mr. Armstrong recalled.But the orders gradually picked up, becoming the cornerstone of the company’s booming business. An expansion of Google’s work force in New York followed.In 2003, Craig Nevill-Manning, a Google computer scientist, wanted to set up an engineering and research outpost in New York. The company’s leaders didn’t have high hopes, assuming all the best software engineers were in Silicon Valley. But they told him he could go ahead if he could find “Google-worthy” talent in New York — and he did, hiring 25 people in the first year.Corinna Cortes, a researcher at Bell Labs, was one of the early recruits. She joined Google to begin building a research arm in New York. Ms. Cortes lived in the West Village, had two young children and welcomed the opportunity to work on leading-edge computer science at Google and keep her city life. She enjoys theater and opera in Lincoln Center, restaurants in Greenwich Village and Soho and running trails along the Hudson River and in Central Park. She has completed the New York City Marathon 14 times and bikes to work.“There was no chance I would go to Mountain View,” said Ms. Cortes, who now leads about 200 scientists for Google Research in New York. “I wasn’t going to live in the suburbs.”By 2006, Google, at that point a darling of Silicon Valley, was settling into the city in a big way, moving into a blocklong Art Deco building in Chelsea. It needed the space, as Google would steadily enlarge its New York work force, to 7,000 today, more than half of them technical staff. In December, the company announced it would spend $1 billion on more office space in downtown Manhattan.Google’s relationship with the capital of the nation’s advertising business was cemented in 2007, when Google announced it would buy DoubleClick for $3.1 billion.DoubleClick, an internet ad-serving, tracking and analysis company that started in New York in 1996, had good technology, but also close ties to brand advertisers, ad agencies and online publishers. At its peak in 2000, the company reached a stock market value of $12 billion, holding on after the dot-com crash.In 2005, DoubleClick was taken over by a private equity firm for $1.1 billion, and two years later, with its fortunes improving, Google paid nearly three times as much.“It was a true diamond in the ashes of the dot-com flameout,” said Mr. Armstrong, who left Google as a senior vice president in 2009 to become chief executive of AOL.“When Google bought DoubleClick, it really took off,” said Randall Rothenberg, chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade association. “That was an inflection point for the digital advertising business in New York.”‘Game Changers’In early 2009, with the city economy reeling, a small team in the Bloomberg administration began an extensive analysis, code-named Game Changers. The team interviewed hundreds of executives, venture capitalists, urban experts and educators. It studied the technology-driven economic growth in Silicon Valley and in Israel’s start-up cluster in Haifa.It concluded that New York needed more computer engineering expertise. The city was a world leader in finance, media, advertising, law and consulting. Why shouldn’t the technology for those industries be built here? The Bloomberg administration called its technology-promotion policy “applied sciences.”“That was our mantra, what we thought of as the yeast for changing the economy,” said Robert Steel, the former deputy mayor for economic development. “And applied sciences would be the key to making the new digital world here instead of someplace else.”The city pushed applied sciences experiments, including start-up incubators, networking events and training and internship programs, nearly all private-public partnerships. But the biggest single step in the city’s applied sciences campaign was the creation of a new graduate school focused on technology and entrepreneurial innovation.Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Steel ran a high-profile competition that included Columbia, New York University and Carnegie Mellon University. In the end, though, a combined bid by Cornell and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology won out.The Cornell Tech proposal fully embraced the Bloomberg administration’s priority of blending science and industry. Graduate students’ projects at local companies are a mainstay of the curriculum.“In New York, people are driven by real-world problems that can be solved with technology,” said Daniel Huttenlocher, the dean of Cornell Tech, who has also worked in Silicon Valley and is an Amazon board member. “In Silicon Valley, the heritage is much more to build cool technology and then figure out how it can make money.”The Flywheel Starts to SpinIn healthy tech hubs, start-ups spawn other start-ups. That has been the pattern in Silicon Valley since the early days of chip making — young entrepreneurial refugees from Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory would go on to found Fairchild Semiconductor and later Intel.But in New York, the virtuous cycle of start-up reproduction has accelerated only in recent years. It took time, entrepreneurs and investors say, for the tech community in New York to build the success stories, human networks and self-confidence that inspire serial risk taking.DoubleClick, once again, was a trailblazer as it became a training ground for New York entrepreneurs. The most prominent is Kevin Ryan, a former chief executive of DoubleClick. He became a founder of six companies, including two e-commerce companies, the Gilt Groupe and Zola; an online business news site, Business Insider; and a database company, MongoDB.Mr. Ryan, the son of a manager at Caterpillar, was raised in the Midwest and in Europe, when his father was posted abroad. He majored in economics at Yale, got his M.B.A. at Insead in France, worked on Wall Street and helped develop the Dilbert website in 1995, as a manager at E. W. Scripps, a media company.The next year, Mr. Ryan jumped into the emerging internet industry, joining DoubleClick as one of the company’s first dozen or so employees, initially as chief financial officer and later rising to chief executive. He left DoubleClick in 2005, two years before Google bought it.“I came to New York because it was an international city,” Mr. Ryan said. “I stayed because I thought it was going to be a tech city as well.”The latter took a while. Tech investors often suggested he would be better off starting businesses in Silicon Valley, especially when he and two other DoubleClick alumni, Dwight Merriman and Eliot Horowitz, founded MongoDB in 2008. MongoDB, a database maker, grew slowly at first, but it has proved to be a commercial and financial success. Its stock is trading around $100 a share, up from its initial price of $24 when it went public in October 2017. It is now worth more than $5 billion.Embracing failure as a learning laboratory is another feature of dynamic start-up economies. Mr. Ryan saw that up close with the Gilt Groupe.Gilt, an e-commerce site that offered luxury goods in online flash sales, raised a lot of money, grew quickly and then fell. In 2016, Gilt was sold to Hudson’s Bay, parent company of Saks Fifth Avenue, for $250 million, less than the venture funding Gilt raised.“We never figured out how to make a profitable business out of flash sales — no one has,” said Mr. Ryan, a founder of Gilt. Last year, Gilt was sold to Rue La La, an e-commerce site, for a fraction of the price Hudson’s Bay paid.But in 2013, a group of Gilt alumni, including Mr. Ryan, took what they had learned and started Zola, a wedding-planning site. Its online gift registry and other services have been used by more than half a million couples, and the start-up raised $100 million last May.Zola’s payroll has tripled in the last two years, to 155 people, and two-thirds of them are women. There are teams in operations, finance, marketing, merchandising and logistics at its offices in Lower Manhattan. Yet the largest single group, about a quarter of the total, is the engineering staff.For Zola, New York offers access to the talent and expertise in the city’s large fashion, design and retail industries. Its co-founder and chief executive, Shan-Lyn Ma, a Stanford M.B.A. and former product manager at Yahoo, marvels at how much the tech scene has changed since she moved to the city a decade ago.“The biggest thing is the sheer number of people and the amount of experience people have in tech now,” Ms. Ma said. “Now, you just step out onto the street and you hear tech product discussions all the time.”Drawn to the CityWhen Maria Samuel graduated from Georgia Institute of Technology with a degree in industrial and systems engineering, she was recruited by Apple and Google. She had been coding since the ninth grade and had worked in seven programming languages. As an intern at NASA in Houston, she worked with a team planning Mars missions.But Ms. Samuel accepted an offer from Goldman Sachs, joining the investment bank in 2015.A product manager, she works with a team to develop software for market analysis, client communication and trading. She views financial markets as a window into industries, markets and behavior. “Every day, I’m constantly learning,” she said.After the financial crisis, graduates with computing skills shunned Wall Street for Silicon Valley. But that is no longer the case, as the finance industry is attracting young talent and seasoned technologists. Last year, for example, JPMorgan Chase lured Apoorv Saxena, a senior A.I. product manager at Google, to lead the bank’s A.I. product development, and Manuela Veloso from Carnegie Mellon University to head an A.I. research team.For Ms. Samuel, 25, the job was appealing, but so was the locale. New York is where many of her friends have come to start their careers. And Ms. Samuel, who sang in a choir and an a cappella group in college, describes herself as a “big Broadway geek.”For most recent graduates, the financial meltdown a decade ago is a distant memory. Today, it is not Wall Street but the big tech companies, like Facebook and Google, that are under fire. Their business models, based on gathering consumer data and targeted ads, have put them at the center of global concerns about privacy and false news.That is a recruiting opportunity these days for R. Martin Chavez, a senior partner at Goldman Sachs, who is also a computer scientist with a Ph.D. from Stanford. At recruiting events, his pitch is to say Google and Facebook have done “amazing things” and quickly add: “If you want to work on advertising, that’s where you should go. If you want to use math and software to solve hard problems for governments, corporations and other institutions, you should come to Goldman Sachs.”As the New York tech sector grows, policymakers and executives hope to broaden its reach beyond Manhattan and the affluent portions of Brooklyn. Fred Wilson, an investor and venture capitalist in New York for more than three decades, saw a warning sign in the protests in Long Island City, Queens, over the news that Amazon had planned to move in.“That’s partly from a sense that it’s not going to help them, and only drive up their costs,” Mr. Wilson said of the community. “To really be a success in New York, the benefits of the tech sector have to extend to every borough and every neighborhood.”Deborah Estrin was the first non-Cornell computer scientist to join the Cornell Tech faculty in 2012. Ms. Estrin was at the University of California, Los Angeles, and not looking to move. But she read the Cornell Tech proposal, and its emphasis on applied technology resonated.Ms. Estrin says that New York’s advantage is its concentration of people in other industries working on problems that require technology to solve.“If you’re doing pure tech — a superfast chip or advanced systems software — Silicon Valley is still the place to be,” she said. “But when it comes to everything else, New York really has a chance to be the place to be.”Armchair investors have been selling stock. So have pension funds and mutual funds, as well as a whole other category of investors — nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms and personal trusts. The stock market is off to its best start since 1987, but these investors are expected to dump hundreds of billions of dollars of shares this year.So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves. American corporations flush with cash from last year’s tax cuts and a growing economy are buying back their own shares at an extraordinary clip. They have good reason: Buybacks allow them to return cash to shareholders, burnish key measures of financial performance and goose their share prices.The surge in buybacks reflects a fundamental shift in how the market is operating, cementing the position of corporations as the single largest source of demand for American stocks. The binge has helped sustain a bull market approaching its 10th birthday, even in the face of political, international and economic uncertainty. Since the market rally began in March 2009, the S&P 500 has risen more than 300 percent as the United States recovered from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. But few expect those kinds of gains over the next decade. Facing the prospect of a period of relatively low returns — or even a bear market for stocks — many investors are eager to protect their gains or to find more appealing investments, like emerging markets and corporate bonds, outside the American stock market. “There’s no reason to be a hog,” said Rich Robben, interim chief investment officer of the Kentucky Retirement Systems, which manages more than $17 billion in the state’s retirement and insurance funds. “We’ve all eaten at the public equity trough very well for 10 years now. And we felt it was just time to reduce that exposure a bit.”Mr. Robben said his pension fund, which pays benefits to more than 100,000 retired state and county workers, has been cutting its stake in the domestic stock market for 18 months. Such prudence paid off late last year, when concerns about a sluggish global economy, rising interest rates and slowing corporate profits hit the market. The S&P 500 fell 14 percent in the fourth quarter, and 9 percent in December alone. That was the worst monthly performance since February 2009, and badly shook investor confidence. Since the worst of the sell-off, on Dec. 24, the S&P 500 is up roughly 19 percent. But data show that many investors remain nervous: In every week this year, money has flowed out of domestic stock market mutual funds and exchange-traded funds — as much as $15 billion in the last week of January, according to EPFR Global, which tracks flows into and out of funds. These investors, overwhelmingly individuals, have moved money into bonds and cash. Henry Crutcher has missed a bit of the rebound. Mr. Crutcher, a 44-year-old software company owner in Atlanta, saw December’s crack in the stock market as a buying opportunity and moved roughly 10 percent of his portfolio from cash into a Russell 2000 exchange-traded fund. After enjoying a couple weeks of rising stock prices, he sold it, missing much of the roughly 10 percent of additional gains that have come since mid-January.“Right now I’m partially invested,” Mr. Crutcher said. “I’m not totally sitting on the sidelines. But I’m more on the sidelines than I think I should be.”Survey data suggests portfolio managers at many mutual funds and hedge funds have also been skittish about chasing the market higher. A survey of global fund managers by Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month reported that those holding more money in cash than usual outnumbered their stock-friendly counterparts by 44 percentage points — the biggest margin since January 2009. Such statistics suggest that many investors failed to capitalize on the sharp snapback in stocks early this year. “The speed of the rally is uncomfortable,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “To turn from a seller to a buyer in a week is, again, psychologically very tough for people.”Corporations, however, don’t seem to be experiencing such angst. In the fourth quarter last year, American companies bought an estimated $240 billion of their own shares, according to an analysis by the Goldman Sachs team that handles stock buybacks for major companies. That’s nearly 60 percent higher than during the same period in 2017. More buybacks are coming. The Union Pacific railroad has bought nearly $32 billion in its own shares since 2007, and this month authorized buying over $20 billion more. The tech equipment giant Cisco has spent roughly $20 billion on buybacks in the past year, and has authorizations to spend another $24 billion. And Bank of America, which planned to buy $20 billion of its own shares by the end of June, just added $2.5 billion on top of that, the bank said this month.Besides returning cash to shareholders, buybacks offer companies two crucial benefits. They increase demand for a stock, helping to prop up share prices. Buybacks also improve a key gauge of profitability closely tracked by investors and analysts: When a company buys back shares, the same profits are spread over the smaller number of shares still outstanding, improving their earnings-per-share number. So far this year, companies have announced plans to repurchase a total of more than $190 billion of their own shares. That is only slightly behind last year’s pace of buyback announcements. And last year was a record for buybacks, as companies, in part thanks to the Trump administration’s tax cut, gobbled $910 billion of their shares, according to an analysis by Goldman Sachs. Before the early 1980s, buying shares with corporate money was considered a legal gray area because it might open a company up to charges of manipulating its share price. In 1982, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule that allowed share repurchases, provided they followed certain rules.Since then, stock buybacks have largely replaced dividends as companies’ preferred way to return to shareholders the cash they can’t spend productively. Shareholders like buybacks because they reduce the numbers of shares outstanding, which results in each remaining share being worth a bigger slice of the company. Taxes on buybacks can also be deferred until investors sell the shares, which are then taxed as capital gains. While share buybacks tend to increase companies’ share prices, critics blame them for stymieing corporate investment, hiring and wages. They argue that when a company spends its cash on buybacks, it leaves less money available for long-term capital spending and wages. Supporters of buybacks argue, however, that companies won’t make new investments or increase hiring if they don’t see a profitable reason to do so. They contend that banning buybacks would simply result in higher dividend payments and corporate cash holdings or a surge in mergers and acquisitions. Senators Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, and Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, said this month that they planned to introduce legislation that would limit buybacks for companies that did not pay their workers at least a $15 an hour, among other criteria. Also this month, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said he planned to introduce a bill that would change the preferential tax treatment of buybacks, though the details of such an approach remain unclear. But even if such proposals were enacted — and few Republicans have voiced support for Mr. Rubio’s idea — it’s not clear that they would derail the stock market’s ever-higher march. A number of other factors — most notably the Federal Reserve’s abrupt turn away from its clockwork pattern of interest-rate increases — have combined to restore confidence since the brutal sell-off that left the S&P 500 down nearly 20 percent for the year on Christmas Eve.The arrival of a solid, if unspectacular, batch of fourth-quarter earnings reports also quelled some investors’ fears about the outlook for the global economy and corporate profits.But the persistent flow of corporate money into the stock market has been a pivotal element in its recent rise. “Buybacks are likely the No. 1 cause,” said Brian Reynolds, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, a Canadian asset management and brokerage firm. Buybacks’ importance to the rally means any legislative push that results in less activity could act as a headwind to stocks, said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at the brokerage firm Weeden & Company. But if such changes don’t gain a foothold, corporate buying will most likely remain a cornerstone of the stock market in the coming years. This year alone, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated, corporations will be by far the largest buyer of shares, with net purchases of $700 billion. Traditional investors like mutual funds, pensions, endowments and individuals are expected to be net sellers, parting with roughly $400 billion in shares. Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)U.S. frustrations grow over China trade talksChina’s vice premier, Liu He, is scheduled to hold face-to-face trade talks in Washington today, before attending a meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office. There is still plenty to be discussed.“The tone of the negotiations between the two nations has grown more stern,” according to Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT, citing unnamed sources. “American officials have come to realize that China has been repackaging promised reforms and trying to sell them as concessions to Mr. Trump,” which has “caused deep frustration among the administration’s China hard-liners.”Here are some of the key issues on the table:• Trade deficits. The two nations have “reached consensus on how to alleviate the trade imbalances,” Reuters reports. “Washington and Beijing are looking at a 10-item list for that, including additional Chinese purchases of agricultural produce, energy and goods such as semiconductors.”• Currency stability. U.S. negotiators are said to be demanding that China stop devaluing its currency as part of a deal. But CNBC reports that such a measure is “likely to encounter little resistance from the Chinese” because the nation’s central bank also wants the same thing, according to economists who spoke with the network.• Settling chip spats. “U.S. and Chinese negotiators are trying to resolve a long-running dispute between semiconductor rivals Micron Technology and Fujian Jinhua as part of a larger trade agreement,” the FT reports.• Enforcement mechanisms. “Negotiators have struggled this week to overcome differences on specific language to address tough U.S. demands for structural changes in China’s economy,” Reuters reports, including “an enforcement mechanism to ensure that China complies with any agreements.”“The final terms of the deal are likely to be worked out in a meeting or phone call between Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump himself,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. That means that Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, must now “narrow the suite of disagreements down to just a handful of remaining issues for the president to negotiate.” It’s unclear how long that might take.Kraft Heinz’s $15.4 billion problemThe processed food giant announced yesterday that it had taken a $15.4 billion write-down, earned less than expected and been subpoenaed by the S.E.C. Unsurprisingly, that spooked investors and raised big questions about its strategy.Blame changing tastes for the write-down. Peter Eavis of the NYT writes that the hit affects the company’s U.S. and Canadian operations and the Kraft and Oscar Mayer brands, and “appears to come from a shift in how consumers eat, emphasizing fresh food over processed products.” The earnings miss, Kraft Heinz said, was because it didn’t deliver enough cost cuts.And accounting questions brought the S.E.C. inquiry. Kraft Heinz said that an accounting cost related to vendor contracts should have been recorded in previous quarters, but that the misstatement “was not material.”Investors, including Warren Buffett, also took a big hit. Shares fell by nearly 21 percent in after-hours trading. Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which is one of Kraft Heinz’s largest shareholders, saw the value of its holdings drop nearly $3 billion yesterday, to $12.9 billion.Kraft Heinz may need a reboot. The company’s fundamental business model — promoted by 3G Capital, the investment firm that pushed Kraft and Heinz to merge — is buying companies and then cutting costs. But the strategy could sputter, writes Tara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Opinion: “Who would want to sell to Kraft Heinz now?”Mixed messages over a tweaked Brexit dealAs the British Parliament heads toward a vote next week that could strip control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May, there is confusion about the current state of play.There was “no breakthrough” in talks between two of Mrs. May’s key ministers and E.U. officials during meetings in Brussels yesterday, according to Bloomberg. Her government has been trying to convince Europe to renegotiate the existing withdrawal plan, but E.U. officials have repeatedly declined to do so. Mrs. May is expected to hold more talks with E.U. officials at a meeting in Egypt this weekend.And there are unclear signals about progress. Philip Hammond, Britain’s finance minister, said last night that a revised deal could be put to a vote in Parliament as soon as next week. Unnamed government officials have since tried to play down those claims. One unidentified source told Reuters, “It doesn’t feel like we will have a deal by next week.”But the E.U. reportedly expects a delay. “Discussions between the two sides suggest May will ask for an extension to the two-year negotiating period if the British Parliament backs the Brexit deal but it isn’t signed off until an E.U. summit on March 21-22,” Bloomberg reports. “That is emerging as the EU’s current plan.”More Brexit news: Euro-skeptic Conservative Party lawmakers are threatening to back out of crucial votes, which could paralyze Mrs. May’s Brexit efforts. A no-deal Brexit could cause chaos for the London-Paris train line run by Eurostar. Mrs. May’s government is said to have delayed a report on the impact of tariffs to avoid a backlash. And deal or no, Britain’s currency is in trouble.Might Trump go easy on Huawei?The Trump administration has been branding Huawei as a threat to national security for months now. But yesterday, President Trump hinted that he may be softening his stance on the company.Mr. Trump wants 5G in the U.S. “as soon as possible” according to a tweet he posted yesterday. But, intriguingly, he wants the U.S. to win the race for the next-generation wireless technology “not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies.” (He also wants 6G technology, which doesn’t yet exist.)That could be seen as an olive branch to China. “Some officials in Mr. Trump’s administration have been pushing for him to sign an order that could result in U.S. companies being barred from buying Huawei technology at all,” the FT reports. “Experts believe the president’s tweet signaled he was backing away from such an action, possibly as a way to soften up Beijing for a wider trade deal.”It comes as Huawei is winning over U.S. allies. Despite pressure from Washington to exclude the company’s equipment from national wireless networks, countries like India and Canada are continuing to rely on Huawei products because a) they work, and b) they’re cheap. And Britain and Germany both seem to be open to using the company’s hardware.By day, MSNBC anchor; by night, Under Armour’s adviserUnder Armour’s board grilled the athletic equipment company’s founder and chief, Kevin Plank, last year, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources. Its focus: his relationship with Stephanie Ruhle, an MSNBC anchor — and his apparent business guru.• “Ms. Ruhle has traveled with Mr. Plank and Under Armour staff on his private jet, they said, and given the C.E.O. her input on a range of business matters.”• Among the topics: How to handle bad press over a sneaker model and recommending that Mr. Plank get involved with the White House, at a time when other C.E.O.s were keeping their distance.• “Ms. Ruhle’s involvement at the Baltimore company was unusual and problematic, these people said, and left employees unsure how to handle her feedback because many people believed she was romantically involved with Mr. Plank.”• “The board asked Mr. Plank about the nature of the relationship and whether company assets were used, these people said.”• A spokeswoman for Under Armour said the two are friends, and that Mr. Plank keeps clear lines between the company and his private life.• “The company has grappled with complaints about its culture, including strip-club visits and inappropriate behavior by executives. Mr. Plank has spoken openly about the company’s shortcomings and vowed to make improvements.”Stock and bonds are up. What does that mean?Simultaneous rebounds in the stock and bond markets are sending conflicting signals about the direction of the U.S. economy, writes Stephen Grocer of the NYT:• “The S&P 500 is off to its best start to a year in nearly a decade, up 11 percent so far.”• “Bond investors have taken a more pessimistic view on the economy’s fate. Prices on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have risen this year, pushing down its yield to 2.69 percent, from 3.23 percent just three months ago.”• “Stock and bond prices are not supposed to rise and fall in tandem. Historically, when investors fret about the future, they pull money out of stock markets and buy relatively safe United States Treasury securities.”• “Investors are in a familiar situation: An economy that isn’t strong enough to compel the Fed to raise rates but is strong enough for corporate America to keep expanding its bottom line.”• “But how long this so-called Goldilocks scenario can persist will depend on the Fed’s plan for rates and the United States-China trade negotiations.”Revolving doorMark Frissora will stay on as C.E.O. of Caesars Entertainment longer than expected, as the casino company faces pressure from Carl Icahn.Spencer Rascoff stepped down as C.E.O. of Zillow, the real-estate company. He’ll be replaced by his co-founder, Rich Barton.Reggie Fils-Aime will retire as president of Nintendo of America. He’ll be succeeded by Doug Bowser.Lisa Borders resigned as the C.E.O. of Time’s Up, the anti-sexual-harassment advocacy group, after her son was accused of sexual assault.The speed readDeals• Pinterest filed confidentially to go public, becoming the latest tech unicorn to seek an I.P.O. (NYT)• Barrick Gold has reportedly considered a takeover bid for fellow miner Newmont, whose market value yesterday was about $19 billion. (Bloomberg)• The food delivery company DoorDash raised $400 million at a $7.1 billion valuation. (NYT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $1 billion investment in Flexport, a freight company. (CNBC)Politics and policy• The Green New Deal is technologically possible. But it’s politically far-fetched. (NYT)• Testimony that Dr. Richard Sackler, the former president of the maker of OxyContin, gave in a 2015 deposition appears to contradict the findings of a Justice Department report. (NYT)• A federal judge ruled that prosecutors, including the current labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, violated the law by not disclosing that they had struck a nonprosecution agreement with Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire accused of molesting young girls, in 2008. (WaPo)• The N.J. State Senate passed a bill to bar President Trump from the state’s 2020 ballot unless he releases his tax returns. David Leonhardt of the NYT argues that House Democrats should renew their demand for the documents as well. (Hill, NYT Opinion)Trade• One party totally happy with the U.S.-China trade war: Russian soybean farmers. (WSJ)• E.U. officials are set to debate when to start trade talks with President Trump. (Reuters)• Chinese ports have banned Australian coal imports indefinitely. (Nikkei Asian Review)Tech• Apple is teaming up with Goldman Sachs to create a credit card that provides extra account features on iPhones. The tech company is also working with Ant Financial to offer interest-free iPhone financing in China. (WSJ, Reuters)• Google will no longer force employees to settle disputes with the company in private arbitration. (NYT)• Tesla’s Model 3 lost its “recommended” status from Consumer Reports. But the cars are finally being delivered in China. (WSJ)• Verizon plans to roll out 5G wireless connections in 30 unnamed U.S. cities this year. (Verge)• How China tracks people using DNA. (NYT)Best of the rest• Ford is investigating how it tested vehicle emissions and fuel efficiency after employees reported possible flaws in its analyses. (NYT)• The $15 minimum wage doesn’t just improve lives. It can save them, too. (NYT)• Could money laundering be widespread across Scandinavia’s banks? (Bloomberg)• How China could both calm its trade war and make itself richer. (Economist)• Delta’s C.E.O., Ed Bastian, says “leadership is not a popularity contest.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)AT&T beats the government, againA federal appeals court ruled against the Justice Department on its bid to block AT&T’s $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner. It’s the final blow to the government’s two-year effort to thwart one of the biggest media mergers in years.A three-judge panel ruled that a lower court had applied antitrust laws correctly. “The government’s objections that the District Court misunderstood and misapplied economic principles and clearly erred in rejecting the quantitative model are unpersuasive,” Judge Judith Rogers wrote on behalf of the panel.AT&T is free to reboot Time Warner. Now a division known as WarnerMedia, it will be turned into a streaming-video business — AT&T’s version of what has become the TV industry’s go-to strategy. Among its planned products: a service that combines HBO, Warner Bros. movies like “Wonder Woman” and shows like “Friends.”The Justice Department won’t appeal the decision. The court’s ruling was a blow to the department’s top antitrust official, Makan Delrahim, who had hoped the case would strike a blow against so-called vertical mergers, which combine companies with complementary businesses.Where should Mr. Delrahim look now? Joe Nocera of Bloomberg Opinion argues that there are far larger consolidation problems in other industries, including tech and airlines.Elon Musk won’t stop fighting the S.E.C.Many executives facing a contempt of court allegation from the Securities and Exchange Commission would stay quiet. Not Elon Musk.“Something is broken with S.E.C. oversight,” the Tesla C.E.O. tweeted yesterday. He was replying to a follower who complained about the contempt accusation moving Tesla’s stock.That will annoy S.E.C. officials, who worry that Mr. Musk isn’t taking their previous settlement with him seriously, according to the WSJ. Tesla lawyers conceded to the S.E.C. that they did not vet a tweet by Mr. Musk about production targets, though they helped write a subsequent “clarifying” tweet.The S.E.C. must try to punish Mr. Musk, some experts say. Officials “have to enforce this settlement,” Charles Elson of the University of Delaware told the FT. “If they let this go, then every C.E.O. will be saying they’re special.” But other lawyers think Mr. Musk’s actions underscore how toothless the S.E.C. is.What will Michael Cohen say about Trump?All eyes will be on Michael Cohen at 10 a.m. Eastern today as he testifies before the House Oversight and Reform Committee. Mr. Cohen, once President Trump’s personal lawyer, has prepared testimony in which he’s expected to call his onetime boss a “con man” and a “cheat,” Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman of the NYT report:• “Mr. Cohen is likely to lay out a picture of Mr. Trump that is fundamentally at odds with the take-charge, top-flight businessman persona he developed on the reality show ‘The Apprentice’ over the course of a decade.”• “Among the most explosive and potentially damning aspects of Mr. Cohen’s testimony before the oversight committee will be providing evidence of potential criminal conduct since Mr. Trump became president, according to people familiar with the plans.” Some of that is tied to hush payments made to the porn star Stormy Daniels.• Mr. Cohen is also expected to discuss the role of Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O., in those payments, as well as how long Mr. Trump continued to discuss plans for a Trump Tower in Moscow in 2016.• “He will also describe the president inflating or devaluing his net worth, referring to a financial statement of Mr. Trump’s that Mr. Cohen has in his possession, the people said.”• The scheduled testimony has already sparked some controversy, with Rep. Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican and ally of the president, threatening to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs. Mr. Gaetz subsequently apologized.Brexit might be pushed back a whilePrime Minister Theresa May has agreed that Parliament should have the option of seeking to delay Britain’s exit from the E.U., Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.Her new plan offers lawmakers a vote on her Brexit deal by March 12. If that is rejected, a second vote by March 13 will let Parliament choose to leave the E.U. without a deal. If that is rejected, a vote will be held by March 14 that would allow lawmakers to request a “short, limited extension” to the process.“Mrs. May’s reversal was striking because she had insisted dozens of times in Parliament that Britain would definitely leave the European Union on schedule on March 29,” Mr. Castle writes. But it is “the latest in a long line of retreats as she has struggled to cajole the fractious Tories into supporting a revised version of the deal.”“While her move lessens significantly the risk of a potentially disastrous ‘no deal’ Brexit by the March 29 deadline, an extension of the negotiating period will merely delay that danger by a couple of months, not end it,” Mr. Castle adds.All 27 other E.U. governments would have to approve a postponement, and “unless Britain plans to hold a general election or another referendum, the delay is not likely to extend beyond early July, when a newly elected European Parliament is scheduled to meet.”More: The news reduces the significance of a series of parliamentary votes on a Brexit motion scheduled for later today. The pound is rebounding. And the E.U. has agreed on tough rules for London-based financial services companies operating on the Continent after Brexit.The F.T.C. assembles a Big Tech task forceThe Federal Trade Commission announced yesterday that it had a new team of officials to police tech giants.The task force will have 17 staff lawyers dedicated to “monitoring competition in U.S. technology markets, investigating any potential anticompetitive conduct in those markets, and taking enforcement actions when warranted.”Tech “grows more important every day” in both the economy and daily life, the F.T.C.’s chairman, Joe Simons, said. “It makes sense for us to closely examine technology markets to ensure consumers benefit from free and fair competition.”It’s not the F.T.C.’s first move against the tech giants. It was reported earlier this month to be considering a record multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations. And critics have increasingly called for breaking up big tech companies — especially the likes of Facebook, which controls Instagram and WhatsApp.The F.T.C. competition director sees “distinct challenges” for antitrust enforcement in tech. That director, Bruce Hoffman, is also quoted at the Verge as suggesting that some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.A Trump tax rise will hit 11 million peoplePresident Trump’s decision to cap a popular tax break will affect 11 million filers this year, Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports:• A $10,000 cap on deductions of state and local taxes from federal income taxes, which was intended to reduce the cost of Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, will mean filers cannot deduct $323 billion on their 2018 federal returns.• “Many filers will benefit from different parts of the tax cuts, such as the elimination of the alternative minimum tax and the reduction in marginal tax rates. Additionally, the law doubled the standard deduction that taxpayers may take, along with a host of other tax changes,” Mr. Tankersley writes.• “The so-called SALT cap is, however, most likely to affect the richest Americans: More than half of the tax increases from the change will fall on the top 1 percent of income earners, according to estimates by the independent Tax Policy Center in Washington.”Is the global economy headed up or down?Some of the biggest figures in finance and economics have conflicting takes.The Fed’s chairman, Jay Powell, told the Senate Banking Committee yesterday that current economic conditions were “healthy” and their outlook “favorable.” But he added that there were “crosscurrents and conflicting signals,” which meant that financial conditions were “now less supportive of growth than they were earlier last year.”Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase is also wary. “We are prepared for a recession,” he said in the bank’s annual presentation to investors yesterday. “We’re not predicting a recession. We’re simply pointing out that we are very conscious about the risks we bear.”But Goldman Sachs is more sanguine. In a note published yesterday, economists at the firm argued that “some green shoots are emerging that suggest that sequential growth will pick up from here.” They believe the U.S. economy stands a good chance of picking up, and that China’s might, too.Revolving doorDeutsche Bank hired Robert Innocentin from Bank of America as a managing director for its financial sponsors team, part of its investment-banking business.Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired 100 employees to work in its nascent corporate cash management business, which aims to challenge Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.The speed readDeals• EBay is reportedly near a deal that would give the activist hedge funds Elliott Management and Starboard Value seats on its board and prepare the online marketplace for a breakup. (WSJ)• Sunrise Communications is in “advanced discussions” to buy Liberty Global’s Swiss unit for $6.3 billion. (Reuters)• The British retailer Marks & Spencer will pay up to £750 million, or $996 million, to form a joint venture with the online grocery specialist Ocado. (FT)• Volkswagen plans to invest $1.7 billion into Ford Motor’s self-driving car division. (WSJ)• ThirdLove, a lingerie start-up challenging Victoria’s Secret, raised $55 million from L Catterton, Katie Couric and the YouTube C.E.O. Susan Wojcicki. (Forbes)Politics and policy• President Trump may drop a demand that North Korea eliminate nuclear weapons in pursuit of a peace deal. (NYT)• The Senate Finance Committee grilled the C.E.O.s of seven pharmaceutical companies about lowering drug prices. (WSJ)• The Congressional Budget Office said that the U.S. government will run out of cash by early fall if its debt limit isn’t increased. (Bloomberg)• The House passed a bill designating over one million acres of wilderness for environmental protection. It still needs Mr. Trump’s approval. (NYT)• Gary Cohn is writing a memoir that covers his time in the White House. (CNBC)Trade• President Trump might be undermining his trade negotiators, weakening a potential deal with China. (NYT)Tech• Facebook dropped the ball on privacy and fake news. Could it do better on hate speech? (Vanity Fair)• Also: Its new subscription platform for content creators, which would compete with Patreon, appears to offer lousy terms. (Verge)• At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, American officials called Huawei “duplicitous and deceitful.” Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates announced that it plans to use Huawei hardware to build high-speed wireless networks. (WSJ, NYT)• I.P.O investors will find Lyft and Uber hard to value, because they bear so little relation to other companies. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• Fiat Chrysler plans to invest $4.5 billion around Detroit in the next three years, updating plants and creating jobs. (NYT)• A three-hour malfunction affected after-hours trading of U.S. Treasuries, stock futures and commodities last night. (Bloomberg)• Jay Powell, the Fed’s chairman, says that the idea that America might not honor its debt obligations “can’t even be considered.” (CNBC)• Walmart is doubling down on efforts to profit from advertising and selling customer data. (WSJ)• U.S. automakers bet heavily on China’s booming car market and cheap labor. It hasn’t paid off. (NYT)• If tough bosses get results, they’re of a sort researchers struggle to find. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a new vote in a House race in North Carolina, a high-profile defection from Venezuela’s government, and a look at the benefits and challenges of the Green New Deal.New election is ordered in North CarolinaA unanimous ruling by the state’s Board of Elections on Thursday means there will be another vote in the last undecided House race after last year’s midterm elections.The Republican candidate in the Ninth District, Mark Harris, asked for the new vote after testimony that his campaign had financed an illegal voter-turnout effort.The details: Mr. Harris had a 905-vote lead over his Democratic opponent, Dan McCready, but regulators were alarmed that Mr. Harris won 61 percent of absentee ballots in a county where Republicans accounted for just 19 percent of them.What’s next: The Ninth District, which includes part of Charlotte, will go unrepresented in Congress for at least several months. It was unclear whether Mr. Harris would run in the new election, which has not been scheduled.Go deeper: This week’s testimony illuminated the inner workings of a precise but amateurish operation that paid workers to collect absentee ballots.A top-level break with Venezuela’s leaderThe country’s former intelligence chief, who is one of the government’s most prominent figures, turned against President Nicolás Maduro on Thursday, calling him a dictator with a corrupt inner circle of followers.Hugo Carvajal, who retired from Venezuela’s intelligence service in 2012, also urged the military to abandon Mr. Maduro before a showdown with the opposition this weekend over the president’s blockade of humanitarian aid.Related: To thwart the shipments, Mr. Maduro ordered the closing of Venezuela’s border with Brazil on Thursday, having already blocked air and sea traffic from three Caribbean islands. Patients whose lives depend on aid fear the political standoff is obscuring their crisis.A plan both possible and problematicThe Green New Deal, a far-reaching proposal introduced by Democrats to tackle climate change and economic inequality, envisions creating millions of jobs by converting America’s energy infrastructure to supply 100 percent of the country’s electricity from renewable and zero-emissions sources.It’s technologically feasible, several experts have said, though perhaps not within the 10-year timescale the plan sets out. The bigger challenge is finding the money and political will.Reaction: Republicans have mocked the plan as a “socialist wish list.” Environmental activists have said its details and the hurdles it faces are less important than its ambition.Explainer: We answered nine questions about the Green New Deal, which you can read here.How New York became a tech townAmazon’s sudden decision last week to abandon its plan for a campus in Queens is unlikely to stall New York City’s ascent in the technology sector.One of our business reporters traces how the city became a magnet for coders and tech companies, by luck and by design. “The main resource in technology is smart people,” said one longtime tech entrepreneur. “The New York tech sector is succeeding largely because New York is succeeding.”Another angle: Mayor Bill de Blasio has become a staunch critic of Amazon after the company called off its expansion plans. His stance could help him woo progressive Democrats if he decides to run for president next year. If you have 12 minutes, this is worth itBeijing cracks down, with American helpUnder the guise of free medical checkups in the western region of Xinjiang, the Chinese government has collected DNA samples, images of irises and other personal data from tens of millions of people. Rights groups and activists say the effort is part of a vast campaign of oppression against Uighurs and other Muslim minority groups. American technology and expertise has helped.Here’s what else is happeningRemaining in Syria: The White House has said that it plans to leave about 200 American troops in Syria, a concession to those who have argued that a complete withdrawal would risk returning key areas to the Islamic State.Special counsel’s report: Robert Mueller is expected to deliver the results of his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election to the Justice Department within weeks, two officials briefed on the preparations said. In an Op-Ed for The Times, the lawyer who drafted the special counsel regulations in 1999 suggests what to expect. Jussie Smollett case: The “Empire” actor, who faces a felony charge of filing a false police report, returned to the TV show’s set after posting $100,000 bond on Thursday. Deadly blaze in Bangladesh: A fire that killed at least 70 people started after a car powered by compressed natural gas exploded, setting off a lethal chain reaction.From The Times: The U.S.-Mexico border is in the news a lot these days, so we’ve started an email newsletter, Crossing the Border. Every week for the next few months, we’ll bring you the stories of some of the millions of people who live along the border. Read the latest one and sign up.Snapshot: Above, Sidney Poitier in front of the old Apollo Theater on 42nd Street in Manhattan in 1959. We’ve collected Times coverage of the actor, who turned 92 this week, as part of a project to digitize six million photographs in our archives.In memoriam: Peter Tork was known as the goofy member of the Monkees, the 1960s made-for-TV band. He died on Thursday at 77. Debate in college sports: Zion Williamson of Duke, who is expected to be the top pick in the N.B.A. draft this year, hurt his knee in a game this week when his shoe fell apart. His injury has raised questions about the amateur status of college athletes and the influence of shoe companies. News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: Trevor Noah had some advice for Jussie Smollett, who the police said had faked an attack because he was upset with his salary: “That’s not a good way to get a raise, people. I mean, call me old-fashioned, but whatever happened to just going into your boss’s office and blackmailing him with nudes?” What we’re listening to: This podcast from Radiolab. Dan Saltzstein, our editorial director for special projects, writes: “I’m not a hockey fan, but I adored this moving tale about John Scott, a brawler (in hockey parlance, a goon) who was elected by fans to the All-Star Game — until the N.H.L. stepped in. This very large man became David, up against a corporate Goliath.”Now, a break from the newsCook: End the week with Italian flourless chocolate cake.Watch: “The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part” is definitely, totally not stealing from “Mad Max.” The director, Mike Mitchell, discusses the movie’s version of the apocalypse.See: “By the Way, Meet Vera Stark” is a barbed and booby-trapped comedy about representation and erasure. The Signature Theater Company’s revival is a Critic’s Pick.Read: “How to Hide an Empire: A History of the Greater United States,” by Daniel Immerwahr, draws attention to islands and archipelagos too often sidelined in the national imagination. It’s one of the 10 new books we recommend this week. Smarter Living: Beef is widely known as the most emissions-intensive food. Next in line (surprise, surprise) is dairy. By one estimate, the production of dairy products contributes about 3.5 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions each year, so  plant-based options can decrease your footprint. Soy, oat or pea milk make reasonable alternatives. And there are plenty of replacements for cheese and ice cream. We also have tips on how to use software like free floor-plan apps and augmented-reality tools to sketch out remodeling ideas.And now for the Back Story on …A familiar face on Wall StreetA reader recently asked us about a trader pictured at the New York Stock Exchange who looked familiar. The reader was right: Peter Tuchman, below, is one of the most photographed traders on the floor.“I think about Tuchman more than any other person when I think about the stock market,” said Jeenah Moon, a photographer who shoots the exchange, and, on occasion, Mr. Tuchman.There are currently 233 active traders licensed with the exchange, but Ms. Moon usually sees a far smaller number at work. Among them, Mr. Tuchman, a broker since 1988, stands out.In an email, Mr. Tuchman said that he “wears his emotions on his face.”“I thrive off the adrenaline,” he wrote.“I’m like a hurricane whirling its way through the floor,” he added. “And I love it, it’s the greatest job on earth.”That’s it for this briefing. Don’t forget: The Academy Awards are Sunday. Here are our columnist’s Oscar predictions.See you next time.— ChrisThank youEleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson provided today’s break from the news. Remy Tumin, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach us at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about American women who have joined the Islamic State.• Love “The Daily”? The team is beginning a weekly newsletter that uncovers  how the podcast’s stories come together. Sign up here.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Largest city in Nebraska (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. Good Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Chevron’s big diversity push? Talk to menDealBook exclusive: The energy company plans to announce today that it has given $5 million to Catalyst, a nonprofit focused on making corporate America more hospitable toward women.It’s funding Men Advocating Real Change, a Catalyst campaign that teaches male executives how to improve diversity and inclusion at their companies. (Among its tactics: lessons on unconscious bias.) Lorraine Hariton, Catalyst’s C.E.O., said it was the single biggest grant in the nonprofit’s 50-year history.Chevron has been a longtime supporter of Catalyst. It began working with the nonprofit 20 years ago, and Mike Wirth, the oil and gas giant’s C.E.O., helped introduce this program to the company two years ago. It now runs in seven Chevron offices worldwide.Diversity and inclusion has improved at Chevron. In 2010, only 6 percent of its board and 11 percent of its management committee were women. Now, it’s 36 percent for the board and 20 percent for the management committee. “I think the business case for this is compelling,” Mr. Wirth told Michael de la Merced of DealBook, saying more diversity has improved innovation.But there’s still a lot to do. Mr. Wirth said that oil and gas needed far more women in engineering and technical roles. And Ms. Hariton said that while companies have been hiring more women, the number of top female executives remains too small.As Trump softens on China, critics circlePresident Trump is facing increasing pressure from Republicans, Democrats and even some of his own advisers to win the kind of large concessions that Beijing has long resisted, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes.Mr. Trump has softened his threats against China. “Citing ‘substantial progress’ in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week,” Mr. Rappeport explains.But the Chinese may be dangling false promises, some top Democrats say, in hopes of ending a trade war that is damaging their economy, as well as hurting American farmers. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit and offers relief to Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.Many big sticking points remain, including China’s state subsidies for its businesses. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands over intellectual property and cybertheft.“The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said,” according to Mr. Rappeport.More: The FT imagines what a trade deal might look like. Trade war is only one of the threats worrying President Xi Jinping of Chin. U.S. companies are planning their lowest rate of expansion in China since 2016. And a delay on further tariffs probably staved off inflation in America.Elon Musk’s tweets anger the S.E.C., againThe Securities and Exchange Commission says a series of tweets Elon Musk published last week violate its agreement with Tesla, and wants him held in contempt of court.Mr. Musk got in trouble last year by tweeting that he had “funding secured” to take Tesla private, when that wasn’t exactly the case. Tesla settled, promising the S.E.C. that it would set up “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications.”Then last week, he tweeted about a manufacturing triumph, saying Tesla would make “around 500,000” cars this year, up from a target of 400,000. He soon corrected himself and repeated the target of 400,000 deliveries. Tesla’s lawyers conceded that Mr. Musk hadn’t had his tweets reviewed, but argued “the substance” of his post had already been vetted and publicly disclosed. Mr. Musk followed up by needling the S.E.C., tweeting that it “forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript,” in which he forecast production of between 350,000 and 500,000 cars. “How embarrassing,” he added.“This is not an innocuous tweet,” Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School, told the NYT. “Insiders have to be careful about revealing misleading information to the public.”Punishments the S.E.C. could seek, Ms. Roiphe said, include a fine, more restrictions on Mr. Musk’s social media use, or even his removal as C.E.O.Is the game changing on Brexit?With just over a month to go before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U., Prime Minister Theresa May could U-turn on her commitment to keeping to schedule. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, under heavy pressure, has promised to support a second public vote.Mrs. May is letting her cabinet think the unthinkable. The prime minister, who has repeatedly insisted that Brexit will occur on March 29, will allow her colleagues “to discuss extending the deadline” today, according to Bloomberg, which sets out what she’d be risking and why:• “On one hand, it would avert mass resignations from pro-E.U. ministers in May’s team, and potentially a defeat in Parliament this week.”• “But it would also risk a destabilizing backlash from Euroskeptic Conservatives.”And Mr. Corbyn has made a big concession to pro-Europeans. He had long resisted a second Brexit referendum, but has had to reconsider after several pro-E.U. lawmakers quit his Labour Party. Stephen Castle of the NYT explains what the reversal means:• “At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea.”• “But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.”The misery of Facebook’s moderatorsDozens of current and former employees of a company called Cognizant, which reviews content for the social network, spoke to the Verge. The investigation makes for grim reading:• “Employees described a workplace that is perpetually teetering on the brink of chaos. It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions.”• “In stark contrast to the perks lavished on Facebook employees, team leaders micromanage content moderators’ every bathroom and prayer break,” and employees “have been found having sex inside stairwells.”• “They are pressured not to discuss the emotional toll that their job takes on them, even with loved ones, leading to increased feelings of isolation and anxiety.”• “Moderators told me it’s a place where the conspiracy videos and memes that they see each day gradually lead them to embrace fringe views. One auditor walks the floor promoting the idea that the Earth is flat.”• “Moderators in Phoenix will make just $28,800 per year — while the average Facebook employee has a total compensation of $240,000.” Facebook’s response: In a statement yesterday, it said it was “putting in place a rigorous and regular compliance and audit process for all of our outsourced partners to ensure they are complying with the contracts and care we expect.”Bank of America kills off Merrill LynchBank of America plans to erase the Merrill Lynch name from its investment banking and trading arms. They’ll go by “BofA Securities” rather than “Bank of America Merrill Lynch,” and its wealth-management unit will be “Merrill.”It’s the end of an era. Merrill Lynch was one of the best-known names on Wall Street when Bank of America bought it during the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, Bank of America was a big lender, built from years of acquisitions — but a minnow in high finance.The combined firm struggled with culture clashes. Longtime Merrill employees were proud of “Mother Merrill” and the “thundering herd” that was its wealth-management arm. The WSJ reports that Bank of America backed away from changing the name before.But now it wants a seamless identity. “We are continuing to unify the company, continuing down the road we started on a decade ago,” Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, told the WSJ. (He has also pushed the firm into safe businesses, de-emphasizing the risk-taking that left Merrill needing a buyer.)The only place where staying as Merrill made sense was in wealth management. Mr. Moynihan called it “the No. 1 brand there is.” Yellen says Trump doesn’t get the FedLast year, President Trump replaced Janet Yellen with Jerome Powell as head of the Federal Reserve. Since, Mr. Trump has broken with precedent by publicly criticizing Mr. Powell for raising interest rates. Ms. Yellen has now made clear what she thinks of all that in an interview with Marketplace.• When the host of Marketplace, Kai Ryssdal, asked if she thought the president “has a grasp of macroeconomic policy,” Ms. Yellen replied, “No, I do not.”• When asked to elaborate, she said, “Well, I doubt that he would even be able to say that the Fed’s goals are maximum employment and price stability.”• “He’s made comments about the Fed having an exchange rate objective in order to support his trade plans, or possibly targeting the U.S. balance of trade,” she added. “And, you know, I think comments like that shows a lack of understanding of the impact of the Fed on the economy, and appropriate policy goals.”Revolving doorAmazon added the former PepsiCo C.E.O. Indra Nooyi to its board.The speed readDeals• G.E., continuing to dismantle itself, agreed to sell its biopharmaceutical business to Danaher for $21.4 billion. (NYT)• Warren Buffett admitted that Berkshire Hathaway overpaid for its stake in Kraft Heinz and said it wouldn’t buy more shares: “The business does not earn more just because you pay more for it.” (Bloomberg)• Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion bid for Newmont Mining has cast a spotlight on two top deal makers: Barrick’s chairman, John Thornton, and Michael Klein, the rainmaker advising him. (Bloomberg)• How lesser-known private equity firms like Veritas Capital and CC Capital are stealing the limelight from larger rivals. (FT)• The telecom company Windstream filed for bankruptcy protection after losing a court fight with a hedge fund. (Barron’s)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen reportedly plans to tell the House Oversight Committee today that President Trump broke the law while in office. (WSJ)• The Senate appears likely to vote against Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall. (Politico)• Alva Johnson, who worked on the 2016 Trump campaign, has accused Mr. Trump of forcibly kissing her. (NYT)• Elizabeth Warren plans to forego fund-raising events with big donors. (NYT)• Meet Andrew Goldstein, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies for his investigation into the president. (NYT)Tech• Telecom equipment appears not to be the only Chinese tech that makes the U.S. government nervous. (CNBC)• California lawmakers want to toughen the state’s already-strict privacy laws. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft defended its military work after protests from some employees last week. (Wired)• Why Toronto is attracting top tech talent. (FT)• T-Mobile has delayed its full 5G launch until later in 2019. (Verge)Best of the rest• Do two troubled banks make one good one? Germany may soon find out. (NYT)• Why proving Jeff Bezos’ accusations of blackmail and extortion could be tricky. (NYT)• Lyft’s I.P.O. has revived a debate: Should a minority of investors be allowed to control a company through dual-class shares? (FT)• The current stock market rally has everything — except investors. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Brand Trump takes a beating in CongressYesterday’s testimony by Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, before the House Oversight Committee was full of theatrics. But between allegations of presidential lawbreaking and racism were revelations about how the Trump Organization operated. They weren’t flattering.Mr. Trump inflated his net worth to apply for bank loans, according to Mr. Cohen. When he asked Deutsche Bank for financing to buy the Buffalo Bills, he claimed to have $4 billion in unquantified “brand value.” He also exaggerated the value of properties, according to financial statements that Mr. Cohen gave to the House.Democratic lawmakers pushed Mr. Cohen to talk about other kinds of fraud. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, for instance, asked him whether Mr. Trump inflated the value of assets when insuring them. “Yes,” he replied.The testimony may have hurt Mr. Trump’s inner circle. Potential victims: Donald Trump Jr. and Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O., both of whom were said to have played a role in hush-money payments to the porn star Stormy Daniels; Ivanka Trump, who was involved in plans to build a tower in Moscow; and Jay Sekulow, a White House lawyer whom Mr. Cohen accused of altering testimony to Congress.Mr. Cohen hinted that more could be revealed. He told lawmakers that he couldn’t answer questions about his last conversation with the president because it was “being investigated right now” by federal prosecutors.Mr. Trump’s woes certainly aren’t over. Five House committees are investigating his business dealings, and federal prosecutors in New York are still looking at matters that involved Mr. Cohen.The China trade deal won’t be perfectRobert Lighthizer, the president’s top trade adviser, warned lawmakers yesterday that hurdles remained to reaching a significant trade deal with China, Ana Swanson of the NYT reports:Plans to raise tariffs on Chinese goods are officially axed. Mr. Lighthizer, testifying before the House Ways and Means Committee, confirmed that the U.S. wouldn’t raise levies on $200 billion in Chinese imports after March 1.Mr. Lighthizer still plans to play hardball. He “told lawmakers that he and his negotiators are maintaining a tough line with the Chinese,” Ms. Swanson writes, “repeatedly using the word ‘if’ when talking about the potential for reaching a deal with Beijing.”And he insists that President Trump isn’t losing patience. “His instructions to me are: You have to get a great agreement. If we have no agreement, we’ll just wait until we can get a great agreement,” Mr. Lighthizer said.But success isn’t guaranteed. “Is this perfect? I’m not going to say it’s perfect,” Mr. Lighthizer said of the evolving deal. “But at least it’s leading to results where everything else didn’t.”More: The U.S. trade deficit in goods widened by 10 percent in December, despite the administration’s attempts to shrink it.Can America win the 5G race?The main topic at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, this week has been the long-hyped next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, Adam Satariano of the NYT writes.The F.C.C.’s chairman says America is winning the race. “In my view we’re in the lead with respect to 5G,” the chairman, Ajit Pai, told the WSJ. He believes the agency is making progress in selling the necessary wireless spectrum and overhauling infrastructure.Not everyone agrees. Brent Skorup, who sits on the F.C.C.’s Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee, writes in a WSJ op-ed that “the U.S. has stumbled,” but “still has time to catch and pass China, the current leader — if the right policies are put in place on both the local and federal levels.”“A widely available, reliable 5G network will require hundreds of thousands of new transmitter sites, and on that score the U.S. trails badly,” Mr. Skorup writes. Private industry will need to collaborate with the federal government, he cautions, adding that “with a combination of responsible use of public assets and light-touch regulation of 5G services, we can still win this race.”More: Here are all the 5G handsets announced so far.No deal for the U.S. and North KoreaToday was supposed to bring a denuclearization deal between America and North Korea. Instead, officials abruptly cut short a summit meeting between President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. “Sometimes you have to walk,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference today.Blame sanctions. Mr. Trump told reporters that North Korea wanted all of the punishing economic sanctions against the country lifted, but America wouldn’t cooperate unless Mr. Kim agreed to give up all of his nuclear weapons.The announcement was a surprise, in part because Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim appeared to be getting along well. At one point, Mr. Trump called his counterpart “my friend.”The collapse of the talks was “a diplomatic failure after he had hoped his second summit with Kim, following their meeting last summer in Singapore, would produce demonstrable progress toward North Korea’s denuclearization,” the WaPo reports. Mr. Trump insisted that the two countries could resume talks in the future.Theresa May’s unlikely Brexit bouncebackA week ago, the British prime minister was on the brink of resignations by cabinet officials and a crushing defeat in Parliament over her Brexit plan. Now, she has won another two weeks to tweak her agreement and convince lawmakers to back it.Mrs. May won a set of votes last night that had previously threatened to undermine her control of the Brexit process. The victory followed a partial surrender: She agreed on Tuesday to give Parliament the option of seeking to delay Britain’s exit from the E.U.“Theresa May is closer to leading Britain out of the European Union with a Brexit deal than at any other point since her negotiations with Brussels began,” Therese Raphael of Bloomberg Opinion writes. Hard-line Euroskeptic M.P.s like Jacob Rees-Mogg have softened their opposition to Mrs. May’s plans, fearing that the alternative might be remaining in the E.U.But her offer of a potential delay could fall apart. President Emmanuel Macron said France might veto such a move “without a clear understanding of the aim that’s being pursued.”More: Britain’s opposition Labour Party formally backed a new referendum on Brexit. Britain won approval to remain in a key World Trade Organization agreement. And Norway’s $1 trillion wealth fund said it would continue to invest in Britain, on the basis that its 30-year time horizon wasn’t affected by political issues like Brexit.Upset by a lower tax refund? Don’t beNews stories about Americans outraged by smaller tax refunds are everywhere. But Neil Irwin of the Upshot says the furor isn’t rooted in logic.• “The tax law that President Trump signed at the end of 2017 reduced the average American household’s 2018 average federal income tax obligation by about $1,600, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center.”• But it meant that many workers prepaid less tax. The average tax refund filed through mid-February was down 17 percent from the same time last year, according to the I.R.S.• A dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow, Mr. Irwin notes — which means a lower initial bill is worth more than a bigger refund.• Economists remain baffled by the phenomenon of people even wanting refunds. “Why do they want to make interest-free loans to the government?” asks Richard Thaler, the Nobel-winning economist.Have we hit peak car?Car ownership is falling out of fashion — under pressure from rising prices, tightening environmental rules, ride-hailing competition and the promise of a self-driving future. In its latest cover story, Bloomberg Businessweek argues that trend could continue:• “A decade ago the auto industry predicted annual global vehicle sales would top 100 million by now, but they’ve stalled instead, falling to 94.2 million last year, down 1 million from 2017.”• “Major urban centers such as London, Madrid, and Mexico City are restricting cars’ access. Such constraints, plus the expansion of the sharing economy and the advent of the autonomous age, have made automakers nervous.”• “ ‘When you put all these trends together, you’re going to see a cap on personal vehicle ownership start to emerge,’ says Mike Ramsey, an automotive consultant with researcher Gartner Inc. ‘We are near peak car.’ ”• “Rather than signaling the end of the road for the automobile, peak car is a reflection that reurbanization and the widespread adoption of mobile apps that can summon a vehicle on demand will lessen the need for many of the 1.3 billion vehicles now on the road.”• “Automakers may talk a good game about moving metal, but increasingly they’re chasing profits expected to come from services that charge by the mile.”Too few women get legal workplace equalityA new World Bank report examined 35 indicators of legal equality in 187 countries to understand how easy it is for women to work and earn money.It rates only six countries as giving women full legal equality: Belgium, Denmark, France, Latvia, Luxembourg and Sweden. By its measures, none did so a decade ago. America isn’t even in its top 60 countries for legal environments that help promote gender parity in the workplace.That’s a problem. “Economies that failed to implement reforms toward gender equality over the past 10 years, for example, saw a smaller increase in the percentage of women working overall and in the percentage of women working relative to men,” Kristalina Georgieva, the World Bank Group’s interim president, writes.“If women have equal opportunities to reach their full potential, the world would not only be fairer, it would be more prosperous as well,” she said in a statement. “Change is happening, but not fast enough.”More: How income inequality can affect mental health.Revolving doorCBS reportedly plans to choose its next chief executive by the end of March, with the interim C.E.O., Joseph Ianniello, and Hasbro’s chief, Brian Goldner, seen as front-runners.The law firm Freshfields hired Aimen Mir, a former Treasury Department official who oversaw the American panel responsible for national security reviews of transactions, as a partner.The speed readDealsOne of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s biggest shareholders, Wellington Management, opposes its $74 billion bid for Celgene. (WSJ)Elliott Management has demanded seats on the boards of several Hyundai companies. (Bloomberg)The German pharmaceutical and chemicals company Merck bid $5.9 billion to buy Versum Materials, in the hope of breaking up a deal with a rival, Entegris. (FT)Disney is reportedly in talks to buy AT&T’s 10 percent stake in the streaming service Hulu. (Variety)KKR and Tencent Music are said to be weighing potential investments in Vivendi’s Universal Music unit. (Reuters)Politics and policyThe attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from President Trump’s inaugural committee. (NYT)The House voted yesterday to require background checks for all gun buyers, the biggest gun-control bill that it has passed in 25 years. (NYT)Beto O’Rourke is reportedly close to announcing that he will run for president in 2020. (Dallas Morning News)State intervention in companies is making a comeback in Europe. (Bloomberg)TechHere are 10 breakthrough technologies that Bill Gates says will change the world. (MIT Technology Review)Could Elon Musk talk himself into a Tesla buyout? Also, look out for an announcement from the company at 5 p.m. Eastern today. (Breakingviews, Twitter)Facebook says it fired an employee who leaked internal communications about content moderation to a group accusing the company of bias against conservatives. (Verge)The F.T.C. announced a $5.7 million settlement with Musical.ly over accusations that the company’s app illegally collected children’s personal information. (NYT)Best of the restWhy are there suddenly so many $100 bills? (CNBC)As its economy sags, China is reportedly facing job losses and troubling infrastructure debt. (CNBC, WSJ)The venture capitalist Michael Moritz will sponsor the Booker Prize for the next five years. (FT)How debt makes the markets volatile. (WSJ op-ed)The stock rout at the end of 2018 reportedly wiped $1 trillion off the fortunes of the world’s richest individuals. (AP)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.The Bull Market’s Greatest Feat? Sowing DoubtThis stock market rally hasn’t been as intense as many others that preceded it.By Stephen GrocerMarch 9, 2019Ten years ago, when the global financial crisis seemed at its worst, the stock market hit rock bottom.The bull run that has followed now ranks among the greatest rallies of the past century: The S&P 500 has more than quadrupled, adding $17.5 trillion in value, and, of the 11 bull markets since the end of World War II, only the run that ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2000 tops the current one in duration and returns.But despite the superlatives, this rally’s primary characteristic is how much skepticism it generated. The intensity of gains that defined the stock market bubbles of the 1920s and 1990s never developed. Instead, many investors spent the past decade deriding the rally and anticipating its demise.Bull markets are usually driven by a strengthening economy that fuels corporate profits. But the economic scars of the downturn a decade ago were deep and the recovery slow. For much of the past decade, economic growth remained lackluster; corporate earnings, at least until last year, were uninspiring; and the global economy bounced from one crisis to the next. There was the sovereign debt crisis that wracked the eurozone, concerns about the health of China’s economy and its growing debt load, tumbling oil prices that dragged down energy-sector profits, and, most recently, concerns about global economy and trade.True, the bull market never succumbed to these worries (although it came awfully close more than once). Credit for that goes to the world’s central banks whose efforts to keep interest rates low made bond investments and other alternatives unappealing, and kept fueling the stock buying. This is not to say that investors weren’t excited about some stocks. Investors piled into shares of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft and those four stock had a big effect on the S&P 500, particularly in the last few years. Over the past decade, and factoring in dividends, the four biggest tech companies accounted for 9 percent of the gains in the S&P 500, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices.When it comes to actual performance of their shares, Alphabet and Microsoft gained more than 600 percent over the past decade, while Apple jumped nearly 1,400 percent and Amazon surged nearly 2,600 percent.It wasn’t just the tech companies themselves that fared well. The best-performing bank stock over the past decade was SVB Financial, Silicon Valley’s so-called hometown bank, which rose almost 1,900 percent. For all the attention paid to technology shares though, the honor of best-performing stock in the S&P 500 over the past decade actually goes to Ulta Beauty, the cosmetics retailer. Its shares have surged more than 7,000 percent.SAN FRANCISCO — Big wealth doesn’t come in monthly paychecks. It comes when a start-up goes public, transforming hypothetical money into extremely real money. This year — with Uber, Lyft, Slack, Postmates, Pinterest and Airbnb all hoping to enter the public markets — there’s going to be a lot of it in the Bay Area.Estimates of Uber’s value on the market have been as high as $120 billion. Airbnb was most recently valued at $31 billion, with Lyft and Pinterest around $15 billion and $12 billion. It’s anyone’s guess what prices these companies actually will command once they go public, but even conservative estimates predict hundreds of billions of dollars will flood into town in the next year, creating thousands of new millionaires. It’s hard to imagine more money in San Francisco, but the city’s residents now need to start trying.Welcomed finally into the elite caste who can afford to live comfortably in the Bay Area, the fleet of new millionaires are already itching to claim what has been promised all these years.They want cars. They want to open new restaurants. They want to throw bigger parties. And they want houses.One recent night, in a packed room with a view of the Bay Bridge and an open bar, real estate investors gathered. Standing at the front presenting was Deniz Kahramaner, a real estate agent specializing in data analytics at Compass.“Are we going to see a one-bedroom condo that’s worth less than $1 million in five years?” he asked the crowd. “Are we going to see single family homes selling for one to three million?”No, he said, not anymore. The energy rose as he revealed more data about new millionaires and about just how few new units have been built for them. San Francisco single-family home sale prices could climb to an average of $5 million, he said, to gasps.[Sign up for California Today, our newsletter for Californians and people who care about California.]“All cash. These are all cash buyers,” he said. “It’s just going to be astounding.”Now, seemingly the whole city — and not just the financial planners and the real estate agents and the protesters who block tech buses — is scrambling to prepare.Housing MadnessAs the idea of the coming I.P.O.-palooza took on currency, sellers started pulling their houses off the market. The broader California housing market has softened, and home sales are down, but here’s one fix for that. “Even if just half the I.P.O.s happen, there’s going to be ten thousand millionaires overnight,” said Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaires everywhere left and right.’”One of those is his client Rick Rider, a 61-year-old C.E.O. who decided not to publicly list his Bay Area house until some of the I.P.O.s have happened.“Our particular house is not a family home. It’s a Double Income No Kids sort of home,” Mr. Rider said. “So it would potentially play well for a lot of the people that would be benefiting from the I.P.O.s.”The spending wars will likely stay close to work. “The millennial tech workers are really looking for convenience,” said Christine Kim, the president of Climb Real Estate. “They seem to not want to own cars, and food deliveries are really easy now, and they want to be close to entertainment, so they’ll stay in the city.”When Google in Mountain View and Facebook in Menlo Park went public, their workers were spread across the Bay Area, and so the impact on housing was diffuse. Now, many of the biggest start-ups are based in San Francisco, in part thanks to the city’s tax breaks. Brokers say San Francisco is where the workers want to stay.In 2018 there were 5,644 properties sold in San Francisco and only 2,208 of those were single family homes. Software employees represent more than 50 percent of those buying, according to Compass. One real estate firm estimates an average one-bedroom in the city now rents for $3,690 per month. (Another firm puts that average at $3,551.)“Now you’ve got all these I.P.O.s at the same time, and we’ll potentially have thousands of young people, all now with money, looking to buy homes,” said Shane Ray, a real estate agent. “You’ll be able to feel it.”Those in the market for a house are trying to buy them fast while the inventory shrinks but before the wave hits.“I had this sense of existential dread that if we didn’t buy before all the I.P.O.s, we would forever be priced out,” said Tom McLeod, the founder of storage start-up Omni, who has been renting for nearly a decade. “We ended up pulling the trigger.”Don’t Buy BoatsCompanies instill in their employees a belief that stock only goes up. At this point, a decade since their founding, start-ups like Uber and Airbnb have been asking their employees to hold that faith for a long time. Now, wealth managers are hoping to rattle the religious.Ryan S. Cole, a private wealth adviser at Citrine Capital, said he has started getting an influx of new clients who are preparing for wealth. He is worried. This generation of the start-up wealthy seem especially bullish on their company’s success.“We’ve been trying to get them to exercise a little more caution, just because they’re so excited,” Mr. Cole said. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn.”He cautions that no one can be sure how well a stock will do. A company like Uber is still dramatically unprofitable, he tries to remind his clients. So many I.P.O.s turn out to be busts. Groupon opened around $26 a share and now trades around $3; Snap opened around $27 and now trades at $9.“A lot of them are young — they’ve just seen their valuations going up forever and they don’t really understand that tech stocks are volatile,” Mr. Cole said. “And they have their managers painting especially rosy pictures of where the company is headed to get them to work harder.”Mostly, he just urges his clients not to spend too much yet.“They shouldn’t be buying boats,” Mr. Cole said. “We see a little bit of that.” Electric bikes, on the other hand, are a favorite mode of transportation for the San Francisco tech worker. Owners of the electric bike shop New Wheel say they are preparing for the I.P.O.s by ordering 30 percent more of the Stromer ST3 — the most popular configuration retails for around $7,500 — and 200 percent more of the Riese & Muller front-loader bikes, which sell for around $9,500. Michael Biggica, the founder of Pixel Financial Planning, said 2019 is the year of “pent-up demand” and that the excitement of a windfall can be intoxicating.“My role is eliminating that emotion,” Mr. Biggica said.Jonathan K. DeYoe, another private wealth adviser in the region, started working with tech clients in 1997 during the first dot-com boom. He said it was pretty exciting back then. Now, as he thinks about thousands of new millionaires coming onto the scene, he is worried about the region’s inequality.“There’s some who’ve talked about pitchforks,” Mr. DeYoe said. “And I don’t think we’ll go there, but there’s a point when that makes sense.”“It’s very visible,” Mr. DeYoe said. “This kind of wealth is very visible.”Party CityIn cities like Oakland and Berkeley and San Francisco, millennials obsess over Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Twitter and attend Democratic Socialists of America meetings. But the socialist passion doesn’t seem to have impacted the city’s zeal for I.P.O. parties, which the party planning community says are going to surpass past booms.Jay Siegan, a former live music club owner who now curates private entertainment and music, is gearing up. He has worked on events for many of the I.P.O. hopefuls, including Uber, Airbnb, Slack, Postmates and Lyft.“We see multiple parties per I.P.O. for the company that is I.P.O.ing, as well as firms that are associated to them,” Mr. Siegan said. Budgets for start-up parties, he said, can easily go above $10 million. “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives. They want ballet performers.”A popular new feature he’s noticing is clients hoping to curate their own theme concerts featuring fleets of bands. Mr. Siegan says he put on one for a 1980s loving tech executive, featuring the B-52s, Devo, The Bangles, Tears for Fears and Flock of Seagulls.In a warehouse in Concord, Calif., the I.P.O. ice sculptor is getting ready to staff up for what he says will be a long year.“It’s going to be a lot of 14-hour days,” said Robert Chislett, founder of Chisel-it, who has around 15 ice sculptors currently employed.Together, they have chiseled a full-size ice car for a tech executive’s party in Atherton and a 10-foot ice Taj Mahal for another’s swimming pool in San Jose. But, he says, I.P.O.ing executives usually want predictable things. An ice chair with the logo on the back, for photos. A lot of logos carved into ice rockets, to indicate that the company’s stock will be like a rocket. And ice cubes, for drinks, with the company logo on each one.To the Barricades and Back AgainAnd of course, the tech backlash, mostly quiet as stocks have vested, is preparing for its own revival.At Radio Habana Social Club in the Mission district, housing rights activists gathered one recent evening for a drink. By now, there is a well-known choreography: the cash comes flooding in to a few and the stock-less masses begin to gather. They will protest evictions, fight developers, organize against tax breaks and unfurl banners in front of tech buses.“It’s going to mean mass displacement,” said Sarah “Fred” Sherburn-Zimmer, the executive director of the Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco, of the coming wealth influx.She paused for a moment. “It feels like the same game,” she said. Activists stood elbow-to-elbow around a table of hummus and pepper jack cheese. “We’ve lived through boom times before,” said Maria Zamudio, the group’s associate director. “We’ve learned our lessons. We know what a massive influx of money looks like. Concessions we made in the past, we will not make this year.”SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft pulled back the curtain on its business for the first time on Friday as it prepared to go public, officially starting the countdown on a horde of technology offerings that are set to bring new wealth to Silicon Valley this year.By publicly unveiling the prospectus for its initial public offering, Lyft signaled its intention to meet investors in what is known as a roadshow in about two weeks, after which it will most likely start trading on the stock market in April. The ride-sharing company leads a stampede of other highly valued private tech companies that plan to go public this year, including its archrival, Uber, as well as Slack, Pinterest and Postmates.But Lyft’s filing also raised questions about the financial health of the tech companies that are planning I.P.O.s. Its filing revealed that while it was growing quickly, its losses were widening. Last year, the company’s revenue totaled $2.2 billion, while it lost $911.3 million.“We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future,” Lyft said in the filing, adding that it expects to spend more as it expands into new offerings and locations.The prospectus is the first time that Lyft has made extensive details of its finances publicly available. Its public offering is being led by JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Jefferies. Lyft did not disclose the market valuation it is seeking from public investors; it was last valued at $15.1 billion by private investors during a financing round in June.[Lyft and Uber said to offer drivers a chance to participate in I.P.O.s.]Lyft filed confidentially to go public in December, the same day Uber did. Both companies are dueling to hold their offerings ahead of the other, in an attempt to be the first publicly traded ride-hailing company. But the onus has mostly been on Lyft to get out first because Uber — estimated to go public at a valuation of as much as $120 billion — would potentially steamroll its much smaller rival.Both companies are set to face questions about when and how they will become profitable. The ride-hailing business is inherently expensive because companies typically pay incentives to recruit drivers and offer discounts to riders. In addition, the companies are spending heavily to grow in areas such as autonomous driving and bike sharing.In 2018, Lyft’s revenue more than doubled to $2.2 billion from $1.1 billion in 2017, according to its filing. But losses mounted, rising to $911.3 million last year from $688.3 million in 2017, though they declined as a percentage of revenue. Total costs and expenses were $3.1 billion in 2018, up 77 percent from $1.8 billion in 2017.Uber, which has disclosed its finances for several years even though it is not public, said in February that it lost $842 million in the final quarter of 2018 on revenue of $3 billion. The firm has been trying to turn its image around after a series of scandals involving its workplace culture and onetime hardball business tactics.Lyft also said 18.6 million people took at least one ride in the last quarter of 2018, up from 6.6 million in late 2016. And based on estimates by the Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which is an investor in Lyft, the company said it had a 39 percent share of the ride-sharing market in the United States, up from 22 percent in 2016.“Two years ago, I definitely viewed Lyft as a second-tier player,” said Jay Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida and an I.P.O. expert. “But Uber’s problems with bad publicity, a lot of self-inflicted stuff, really benefited Lyft.”Matt Kennedy, a senior I.P.O. market strategist at Renaissance Capital, which provides institutional research on public offerings, said that it was possible Uber would bite back and that Lyft’s growth would decline.“The number of I.P.O.s that we’ve seen with $2 billion in revenue and growing at 100 percent are few and far between,” he said.Founded by Logan Green and John Zimmer in 2007, Lyft was initially called Zimride and focused on pooling riders for long-distance trips. By 2012, the pair had renamed their company Lyft and shifted the business to providing brief local trips, mimicking taxi rides.The company presented itself as a genial alternative to Uber. In its early days, Lyft encouraged drivers to strap fuzzy pink mustaches to their front bumpers and to greet riders — who often sat in the front seat — with fist bumps. Although Lyft has since lost the furry fender ornaments, it has maintained its softer image.On Friday in its prospectus, Lyft continued to emphasize that image as giving it an edge. In a founders’ letter, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer wrote that their focus on doing the right thing provided them with a “lasting competitive advantage.”Unlike Uber, which has operations across the globe, Lyft operates in the United States and Canada. It has matched Uber’s efforts to develop self-driving cars and has also expanded into short-term bike and scooter rentals.The company also disclosed that it planned to have two classes of stock: Class A shares, which carry one vote each, and Class B shares, which carry 20 votes apiece. Lyft plans to sell only Class A shares in its public offering.Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who could become billionaires from the offering, each own millions of shares of Class B stock, giving them significant control over the company. In having separate classes of shares — and letting its founders have more power than other shareholders — Lyft is following a well-worn tech company tradition, one adopted by Facebook, Snap and others.“Lyft has the opportunity to deliver one of the most significant shifts to society since the advent of the car,” Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer said in their founders’ letter. “We do not take that lightly, and we intend to lead this shift with integrity, humanity and strong execution.”Among Lyft’s biggest investors are Rakuten; General Motors; Fidelity, the investment management giant; Andreessen Horowitz, the venture capital firm; and Alphabet, the parent of Google, according to the filing.One group that helped build Lyft — its drivers, who are independent contractors — will not share much in the public offering spoils since they do not own stock in the company. Lyft is now working on a cash program to give some drivers money to buy its stock at the time of the I.P.O. The company intends to give $1,000 each to drivers who have completed 10,000 rides for the service; those who have done 20,000 rides will receive $10,000.Good Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Beijing promises business reliefChina’s premier said today that his government would respond to an economic slowdown by cutting taxes, easing burdens on the private sector and giving markets a bigger role, Keith Bradsher and Chris Buckley of the NYT write.2019 is a “crucial year” for China’s economy, Premier Li Keqiang, the second-ranking official in the country after President Xi Jinping, said at the opening of the National People’s Congress in Beijing this morning. He said the trade war with America had “had an adverse effect,” adding, “We must be fully prepared for a tough struggle.” China has lowered its growth target for this year. Mr. Li said that the nation was now aiming for gross domestic product growth of 6 to 6.5 percent, down from a target of 6.5 percent over the past two years.Other policy changes include a reduction in value added tax, which is expected to boost corporate earnings. And Mr. Li said the government would “act with resolve to hand matters it shouldn’t manage over to the market.”But Mr. Li’s speech “did not go as far as domestic or foreign critics would have liked,” Mr. Bradsher and Mr. Buckley write, adding that “economic anxieties have come to dominate policy in China” over the past year.And China may just need to accept the new normal. A gradual decline in an astonishing growth rate is “what happens when you become a big, maturing economy,” Daniel Moss of Bloomberg Opinion writes.More: China is getting ready to overhaul to its laws on foreign investment in order to ease its trade dispute with the U.S.Ghosn is finally granted bailA Tokyo court ruled today that the former auto industry leader Carlos Ghosn could post bail, months after he was charged with financial misconduct. The court set the bail at 1 billion yen, or about $9 million.It was Mr. Ghosn’s third bail request, but the first led by his new legal team, including the high-profile defense lawyer Junichiro Hironaka. Prosecutors previously argued that Mr. Ghosn was a flight risk and might tamper with evidence.The court imposed strict limits on Mr. Ghosn, including a ban on leaving Japan, surveillance outside his Tokyo residence and a pledge not to contact people beyond his legal team. “The bail conditions are severe, but we will make sure to comply,” Mr. Hironaka said.The battle for bail highlighted Japan’s use of what critics call “hostage justice.” The FT writes that it “prolongs the detainment of defendants who, like Mr. Ghosn, assert their innocence and refuse to make a confession.”Mr. Ghosn isn’t free yet. Prosecutors have appealed, and his own legal team says he’s unlikely to be released today.Democrats’ Trump investigations reach wideThe chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler, issued a flurry of document requests yesterday to all corners of President Trump’s world. It’s the most sweeping effort yet by Democratic lawmakers to investigate the president for alleged misdeeds.Mr. Nadler requested information from 81 people and agencies, including the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the inaugural committee, the White House, and family members and aides. Other House committee chairs have requested documents related to Mr. Trump’s communications with President Vladimir Putin of Russia.Democrats are looking into possible violations of campaign finance law and use of office for personal gain, particularly where it might violate a constitutional ban on foreign emoluments. They’re also investigating claims about hush money payments to the porn star Stormy Daniels and attacks against critics.They clearly won’t wait for Robert Mueller. The NYT notes that the House has “a different standard of evidence not wedded to a criminal indictment.” Republicans accused their colleagues of laying the groundwork for impeachment proceedings.But hurdles remain. Unlike Mr. Mueller, House Democrats can’t compel document production by convening a grand jury. And the White House could assert executive privilege to block some requests — though Trump administration officials said they would cooperate when possible.AT&T shuffles its staff for the streaming warsThe telecom giant finally unveiled its new structure for what was once Time Warner yesterday, days after it beat the Justice Department’s effort to block the acquisition. Warner Media, as it now is, has been reorganized to better fight old rivals (like Verizon) and new ones (like Netflix).Who’s in? Bob Greenblatt, the former head of NBC and Showtime, will be chairman of Warner Media Entertainment. Jeff Zucker, the current CNN chief, will oversee news and sports. And Kevin Tsujihara will continue to lead the Warner Bros. movie studio, along with a new division for family and kids’ programming.The battle has two fronts. AT&T hopes 24-hour news and content like “Game of Thrones” will help it fend off telecom competitors. But it also wants to compete in streaming against giants like Netflix and Amazon. John Stankey, the head of Warner Media, told the NYT that the reorganization would speed the development of a new online video service.The man in the hot seat is Mr. Greenblatt, who as HBO’s new boss replaces Richard Plepler, the much-admired former C.E.O. who resisted AT&T’s desire to make the network more like Netflix. Mr. Greenblatt defended AT&T’s approach, telling Vanity Fair that HBO would have to increase its output “because now we live in a volume world, and there’s no way to really avoid that.”More: The New Yorker reported that in the summer of 2017, President Trump ordered Gary Cohn, then his economic adviser, to push the Justice Department into blocking AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner.Does Big Tech need a Glass-Steagall law?After the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act forced lenders to separate their commercial and investment banking operations. Now, Representative David Cicilline, who leads the House antitrust subcommittee, wonders if something similar could apply to tech.“It’s an interesting idea whether there would be a way to think about separating what platforms do versus people who are selling products and information — a Glass-Steagall for the international” tech companies, Mr. Cicilline told the FT.His views hold weight. Mr. Cicilline has been an outspoken voice in the Democratic Party about tech regulation — he previously said that “Facebook cannot be trusted to regulate itself” — and his committee position is a powerful one.Others in Washington are making similar noises. Last week, the F.T.C. announced a new Big Tech task force, and its director of competition, Bruce Hoffman, said that some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.Defending share buybacksLawmakers on both sides of the aisle want to limit companies’ ability to buy back their shares. But Josh Bolten, the C.E.O. of the Business Roundtable, and Ken Bertsch, the executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, write in an NYT Op-Ed that such efforts could hurt the economy.• Restricting buybacks and dividends, the two write, could force companies “to sit on cash or waste it on projects with a low potential for success.”• “Some critics of buybacks miss this point: Money returned to shareholders through buybacks and dividends does not disappear from the economy,” Mr. Bolten and Mr. Bertsch add, citing individuals making big purchases, angel investments in new businesses and loans as potential uses of such cash.• “While there was a substantial increase in buybacks and dividends last year, business investment also increased substantially and grew at the fastest rate since 2011.”• “Not only do buybacks and dividends support a stronger and more dynamic economy, they also contribute to Americans’ retirement security,” Mr. Bolten and Mr. Bertsch write, citing widespread stock ownership in American households.• The two concede that buybacks could be abused and advocate companies having strong corporate governance. But they argue federal limitations “would stifle innovation and opportunity in America.”Was Google really underpaying men?A recent Google study into pay equality at the company found — to the surprise of just about everyone — that men were paid less than women for doing similar work, Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT writes:• “The study, which disproportionately led to pay raises for thousands of men, is done every year.”• “In response to the study, Google gave $9.7 million in additional compensation to 10,677 employees for this year. Men account for about 69 percent of the company’s work force, but they received a higher percentage of the money.”• “Critics said the results of the pay study could give a false impression. Company officials acknowledged that it did not address whether women were hired at a lower pay grade than men with similar qualifications.”• “A more difficult issue to solve — one that critics say Google often mismanages for women — is a human resources concept called leveling. Are employees assigned to the appropriate pay grade for their qualifications?”More: Some employees reportedly believe that the company continues to work on a censored search engine for China.Revolving doorPepsiCo promoted Laxman Narasimhan to chief commercial officer, a new position.Andreessen Horowitz hired David George from General Atlantic as a partner focused on later-stage venture capital investments.The speed readDeals• Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, is reportedly exploring a bankruptcy filing to limit its legal liabilities. (Reuters)• Newmont Mining rejected Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion takeover offer and instead proposed a joint venture. (Bloomberg)• Alibaba is working with Office Depot on a U.S. e-commerce venture. (Reuters)• The reviews site Trustpilot raised $55 million in a funding round led by a subsidiary of the investment firm Advent International. (CNBC)• Is it time to stop betting on Warren Buffett? (MarketWatch)Politics and policy• A majority of senators have declared against President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT)• Big tech companies were out in force at last year’s Conservative Political Action Conference. Not this year. (NYT)• Attorney General Bill Barr won’t recuse himself from overseeing Robert Mueller’s investigation. (CNBC)• Roger Stone may have violated his gag order with another Instagram post. (NY Post)Brexit• British officials head back to Brussels today to seek concessions from the E.U. that might make Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal more acceptable to her party. (Bloomberg)• British shoppers have begun holding off on spending. (FT)• President Emmanuel Macron of France has called for a “European renaissance” to strengthen the E.U. after Britain leaves. (FT)Trade• The U.S. plans to end preferential trade agreements with India and Turkey. (BBC)• U.S. and E.U. trade negotiators can’t agree on agriculture policies, which could reignite an economic fight. (WSJ)Tech• The N.S.A. has shut down a program that analyzes logs of Americans’ domestic calls and texts. (NYT)• Facebook has sued Chinese companies for creating and selling fake accounts. (WSJ)• A guide to Huawei’s big A.I. ambitions. (MIT Technology Review)• Chinese hackers reportedly attacked more than two dozen universities around the world to steal research about military maritime technology. (WSJ)• Vladimir Putin wants even more control of Russia’s internet. (Bloomberg)• The British police have launched a fraud investigation into the payment start-up Revolut after a cash transfer went missing. (FT)Best of the rest• China has accused two detained Canadians of espionage. (NYT)• A federal judge took the rare step of dismissing a market manipulation case against a Barclays trader before a jury verdict, preventing an appeal by prosecutors. (NYT)• Nordea Bank, the biggest Nordic bank, reportedly handled almost $800 million in suspicious funds between 2005 and 2017. (Bloomberg)• For just the second time, a patient appears to have been cured of H.I.V. (NYT)• The case against publishing tax returns. (Bloomberg Opinion)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.BEIJING — A senior Chinese trade official called on Saturday for a compromise between the United States and China that could make a trade deal easier to reach this spring. But it could also lead to a more fragile agreement, which could fall apart quickly should trade frictions rise again.Over the past year, the most contentious issue in the countries’ trade talks has been the Trump administration’s demand for what it calls an enforcement provision, which would allow the United States to monitor China’s behavior and put penalties in place if the Chinese violated the deal.The Trump administration has pressed China to accept an agreement allowing the United States to unilaterally reimpose tariffs if it concludes that China has not gone through with structural changes to its economy. In the past month, the administration has also pushed for a broader enforcement mechanism, which would include the right to reimpose tariffs for any category of goods in which imports from China surge.In exchange, the Trump administration would roll back at least some of the tariffs it placed on $250 billion of imports from China that it imposed last year, penalties that have strained ties between the governments, rocked financial markets and thrown the future of companies that operate in both countries in doubt.Chinese officials have strongly resisted the idea of an enforcement provision. They worry that the Trump administration, or future ones, could invoke it at any time to restart trade frictions.But Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, raised a possible compromise at a news conference in Beijing on Saturday morning. He said China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions against the other side after an agreement was struck.“Any implementation mechanism must go in both directions, fair and equal,” Mr. Wang said, using China’s preferred term for an enforcement mechanism. He spoke at an annual news conference given by the Chinese Commerce Ministry’s top officials, in conjunction with the 11-day session of the country’s rubber-stamp legislature, the National People’s Congress.Mr. Wang did not address another aspect of the enforcement question that has deeply divided the United States and China. While the Trump administration wants the right to reimpose tariffs unilaterally, China’s Commerce Ministry has favored creating a lengthy process of bilateral consultations if either side has a grievance.In testimony before Congress on Feb. 27, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, outlined a possible method for enforcing the deal under which the two sides would hold a regular series of meetings at multiple levels of government, and, if China violated the agreement, American tariffs would spring back into force.The details of that proposal aren’t fully clear. But some American businesses are wary of a deal that would only allow them to air complaints through the government, as Mr. Lighthizer’s description seemed to suggest. They said such an arrangement could be time-consuming and ultimately lack the capacity to address many of the problems faced by the thousands of American companies operating in China.Other trade deals that the United States has signed in the past have included different methods that companies could use to resolve problems, like a special court for investors. But the Trump administration has been suspicious of those kinds of arrangements, viewing them as a potential infringement on American sovereignty.American businesses also contend that having the main penalty for violating the agreement be the reimposition of tariffs risks creating lasting uncertainty. The companies are now weighing whether to continue to invest in China or whether the prospect of additional levies would make it less risky to move operations abroad.As long as the threat of tariffs looms, the United States and China could resolve their differences in the coming months, only to find themselves back in a similar stalemate next year.“We could definitely see ourselves in yet another period of uncertainty,” said Erin Ennis, senior vice president of the U.S.-China Business Council.Mr. Wang did not answer a question about whether Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping might meet in Florida this month to seal a trade deal. Tentative plans for such a summit meeting have been put in doubt by continued disagreement over an enforcement mechanism, and over what limits China might accept on its ability to subsidize high-tech manufacturing.If the two sides agree on an enforcement provision that covers import surges, it might be more useful to the United States.Research by Brad Setser, who was a Treasury economist in the Obama administration and is now at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, has found broad stagnation in American exports of manufactured goods over the past few years, a possible sign of eroding American competitiveness. By contrast, Chinese exports to countries all over the world have been surging.China wants the United States to remove all of the extra tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last year. That would leave China with its average tariffs of 7.5 percent on imports from all over the world, compared to 5 percent for the European Union and 3 percent for the United States.China contends that it is still a developing country and therefore should not have to operate under the same trade rules as the West. Commerce Minister Zhong Shan said at the news conference on Saturday that any reform of the World Trade Organization, which the Trump administration has sought to overhaul, should respect the different needs of developing countries.Mr. Trump has promised an ambitious agreement that would address ever-rising American trade deficits with China at a time when Beijing poses a growing geopolitical challenge to the United States. China has built the world’s largest navy and an archipelago of air bases on artificial islands in the South China Sea, and it has tried to promote its combination of single-party authoritarianism and state-led economic growth as a global alternative to democracy and free markets.But the overall United States trade deficit, and specifically its deficit with China, further increased last year. Congressional Democrats have become increasingly critical of Mr. Trump on trade in recent days, accusing him of having become too willing to accept a weak deal just to have an agreementMr. Trump and his advisers continued to present a tough front on Friday, even as the president predicted a jump in the stock market if a trade deal were to be reached. “If this isn’t a great deal, we won’t make a deal,” he added.Mr. Wang said there had been progress during trade talks last month in Washington — and at least one moment of harmony. Vice Premier Liu He of China ordered a hamburger, while Mr. Lighthizer had a Chinese dish, chicken with eggplant sauce. Mr. Wang said the two men turned down offers of tea and coffee.“They were both drinking water, they wanted to find common ground,” he said.Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to your quick and painless summary of tech and business news. You don’t need reminding that it’s the shortest weekend of the year; make the most of it.MARCH 3-9What’s Up? Pull Up a Digital ChairFacebook, the platform known for sharing your personal information with the world whether you like it or not, is going for a more discreet vibe these days. The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wants to nudge users toward “private” messaging and away from blasting their networks with status updates, a trend he says is already underway. He likened his new vision, which will integrate other Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram and WhatsApp, to a “digital living room” where people can have intimate discussions secure from outsiders. (He emphasized the term “encrypted.”) It’s unclear how this pivot will affect Facebook’s business model, and critics have pointed out the obvious paradox of a company known for playing fast and loose with users’ data suddenly espousing privacy protection.Still Hiring, but BarelyYet another sign that the country’s economy may be cooling: February’s disappointing jobs numbers. Only 20,000 new jobs were added, far less than the 175,000 that analysts had predicted. It’s the weakest report since September 2017, but on the upside, it still marks the 101st consecutive month of growth. Wall Street got good news this past week as regulators eased their oversight of the nation’s biggest banks. The policy shift is part of the Trump administration’s promise to call off the watchdogs put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, rules that the financial industry has criticized as hampering economic growth. While these rollbacks may help stoke markets, they could also lead to a less transparent financial system — and a repeat of past mistakes. Out of the KitchenGo back to enjoying your pasta: The Italian food impresario Mario Batali has formally exited his dining empire. More than a year after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment and assault, he “will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way, shape or form,” said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will run the remaining 16 establishments in Mr. Batali’s former portfolio. She and her brother, Mr. Batali’s erstwhile business partner Joe Bastianich, bought the disgraced chef’s shares in the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group for an undisclosed sum. Mr. Batali will also hand over the keys to Eataly, the chain of Italian food emporiums. MARCH 10-16What’s Next? Tesla Thinks BiggerIf you’ve been holding out for a Tesla that can fit your family and Elon Musk’s ego, the automaker will unveil its new crossover S.U.V., the Model Y, at the company’s Los Angeles design studio this week. Mr. Musk, the chief executive, said that the Model Y will be about 10 percent roomier than the Model 3 sedan, have slightly less battery range and come at a higher price. Tesla could certainly use the revenue boost. In its effort to sell the Model 3 for a long-promised $35,000, it’s had to lay off workers, close showrooms and cut other costs — moves that have battered its stock price. Eyes on 2020Wondering what the growing crowd of presidential candidates will be talking about this coming week, in addition to the country’s new record-high trade deficit? Well, President Trump is expected to deliver his budget proposal for 2020 this Monday, about a month late because of the government shutdown earlier this year. Lower tax revenue and increased government spending have driven up annual budget deficits, which now are expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But Mr. Trump is likely to play down those numbers and focus on spending cuts instead. A Reckoning for BrexitIt’s understandable if you’ve been ignoring the Brexit commotion; all that back-and-forth was getting tedious. But now is the time to start paying attention, as talks come down to the wire. Britain’s House of Commons will vote on the latest version of Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan this Tuesday. If it is rejected — as it probably will be — then Parliament will vote on whether to leave the European Union without a deal or to delay Britain’s departure beyond the original March 29 deadline. Either way, the path doesn’t look smooth, and the European Central Bank is bracing itself. On Thursday, it abruptly reversed course and revived its stimulus measures.What Else?Uber will not be held criminally liable for the death of a woman who was hit by a self-driving test car in Arizona last year, although its safety driver — who was sitting in the driver’s seat at the time of the accident — still could face charges. In other news, a new cosmetics deal has made Kylie Jenner, at 21 years old, the world’s youngest “self-made” billionaire (the “self-made” label is up for debate, but hey, the money’s real). Perhaps she’ll buy this Bugatti, which set a record last week as the world’s most expensive car at $19 million.Good Thursday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Big questions over Facebook’s privacy pivotFacebook plans to start shifting people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business has been built, Mike Isaac of the NYT reports:• Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that the company “would focus on private and encrypted communications, in which users message mostly smaller groups of people they know.”• “Unlike publicly shared posts that are kept as users’ permanent records, the communications could also be deleted after a certain period of time.”• “He said Facebook would achieve the shift partly by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger so that users worldwide could easily message one another across the networks.”• That, Mr. Zuckerberg said, would make Facebook a “living room,” rather than a “town square.”Facebook’s declining public perception, fueled by fake news and data privacy scandals, is driving the shift. “Frankly we don’t currently have a strong reputation for building privacy protective services,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. To grow, and roll out new technologies like its reported cryptocurrency, the company needs to regain trust.But plenty of questions remain:• What’s the business model? Most of the company’s current profits come from openly sharing content and displaying targeted ads, which doesn’t fit with the privacy push. Mr. Zuckerberg argued that there were “all kinds of different commerce opportunities” available in a shift to privacy, but didn’t elaborate.• Should its platforms be integrated? It’s not clear that users want Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger to be combined. And Facebook could find itself facing allegations of anti-competitive behavior by tying them together.• When will it happen? Mr. Zuckerberg had promised to improve Facebook’s privacy in the past and then was painfully slow to act. (A “Clear History” tool announced last year still hasn’t arrived.)____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Huawei sues the U.S., citing Constitutional violationsHuawei sued the U.S. government yesterday over a ban on government agencies using the Chinese telecom giant’s products because they could violate American national security.The U.S. says Huawei products are a security threat, and could be used by Chinese authorities to spy on telecom networks — though it has yet to produce supporting evidence. Washington has pushed wireless carriers to avoid using the company’s equipment, and urged other countries to follow suit.The lawsuit will force Washington to show its hand. “The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement.Huawei also claims it’s being unfairly singled out in an unconstitutional bill of attainder — where legislation singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial. Mr. Guo said that Congress was acting as “judge, jury and executioner.”But the strategy is risky. Its business practices and relationship with Beijing will be put under the microscope. And legal experts say the lawsuit on its own is unlikely to succeed: The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab lost a similar lawsuit two years ago.Washington eases its big bank rulesFederal regulators plan to roll back regulations on the country’s largest banks and financial firms, making it easier for them to gain approval to raise dividends or buy back their shares.The Fed will reboot its “stress tests” that banks undergo each year. In particular, the Fed won’t give “pass” or “fail” grades for the portion of the tests that measure banks’ ability to keep lending during an economic crisis.Big non-bank firms will also get an easier ride. A federal oversight panel will scrap the “systemically important financial institution” designation, which subjects non-bank firms like insurers and asset managers to intrusive oversight. (It’s largely symbolic: Only four firms had been labeled systemically important and all have successfully argued to shed that status.)This is part of the Trump administration’s effort to relax financial regulations imposed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Officials have sided with the banking industry in arguing that Obama-era rules stifled lenders’ ability to make loans and continue to grow.But critics say it’s risky, and could lead to a less safe, less transparent financial system. Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets, a financial industry watchdog, told the NYT, “The markets are not going to have the full picture.”America’s trade deficit breaks a recordPresident Trump’s aggressive fights over trade are driven by a desire to narrow America’s trade deficit, which he sees as a sign of partners taking advantage of the U.S. But the gap between imports and exports has actually widened, leaving the U.S. with a record trade deficit of $891.3 billion, Jim Tankersley and Ana Swanson of the NYT write:• “The increase was driven by some factors outside Mr. Trump’s control, like a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the United States dollar, both of which weakened overseas demand for American goods.”• “But the widening gap was also exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut,” they add, “and the trade war he escalated last year.”• “Economists have long warned that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts would ultimately exacerbate a trade deficit he has vowed to reduce, as Americans, flush with extra cash, bought more imported goods.”• “By his own metric, the president is failing to right America’s global trading relationships.”But economists aren’t panicking. “I’d rather live in a country that capital is trying to get into, rather than get out of,” Larry Summers, who led the National Economic Council under President Barack Obama, told the NYT. “The reason we have a trade deficit is people are investing in America.”The E.U. wants new Brexit ideas, fastOfficials in Brussels have reportedly asked Prime Minister Theresa May to offer new proposals that would convince British lawmakers to back her Brexit deal within the next 48 hours, the BBC reports.“E.U. officials said they would work nonstop over the weekend if ‘acceptable’ ideas were received by Friday to break the deadlock” over issues tied to the Irish border, which have been the main sticking point, according to the broadcaster.But the U.K. has said it already put up “reasonable” proposals to satisfy lawmaker’s concerns about being tied to E.U. rules. (That said, Mrs. May has reportedly outlined steps “to develop technology to keep the Irish border open after Brexit” in the event of no deal, Bloomberg reports.)Unsurprisingly, the E.U. is pessimistic. “There’s increasing concern on the European side that any concessions the bloc would be prepared to give wouldn’t be sufficient to win a majority in the House of Commons,” according to Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources.More: Toyota says it might stop manufacturing cars in Britain in the event of a no-deal Brexit. And the O.E.C.D. has warned that a no-deal departure could cause a recession in the country.Are leveraged loans a global threat?The Financial Stability Board will examine whether the $1.4 billion market for leveraged loans — those made to companies with low credit ratings or high debt loads — poses a risk to the global markets, Sam Fleming of the FT reports.• The F.S.B. will focus on collateralized loan obligations, which are bundles of leveraged loans that are sold off in tranches. The regulator “wants to identify the holders of C.L.O.s around the world and assess the risks that investors could pull money from exposed institutions during a severe downturn,” the FT writes.• Investors in C.L.O.s include banks, investment funds and insurers.• Randy Quarles, the chairman of the F.S.B., told the FT, “From a financial stability risk [point of view] we need to know more about that than we do, and we have set up a process at the F.S.B. to understand that.”• “Companies have been amassing cheap loans thanks to low interest rates and loosening lending standards, and in the U.S. nonfinancial corporate debt is now a higher share of gross domestic product than before the crisis,” Mr. Fleming writes.How HBO repeatedly failed to stop NetflixAT&T is rushing to overhaul HBO, and the rest of what was Time Warner, to fight back against Netflix. But Bloomberg Businessweek has taken a look at how the “Game of Thrones” network and its parent company missed opportunities to dominate the streaming wars in the past:• In 1999, HBO’s chief information officer, Michael Gabriel, asked Jeff Bewkes, then the network’s C.E.O., how he wanted to reckon with the internet. “Bewkes wanted HBO to be all in on the internet when the time was right, Gabriel says, but he didn’t want to spend too much money or be premature,” Businessweek reports.• In 2007, “An idea spread through HBO: What if Time Warner bought Netflix? It would be the perfect marriage of art and science and give Time Warner enormous leverage over the downstream markets for TV shows and movies. The concept made its way up the chain of command, where it was duly slain.”• “In a December 2010 New York Times interview, Bewkes, who by then was overseeing all of Time Warner as C.E.O., weighed in on his competitor. ‘It’s a little bit like, Is the Albanian army going to take over the world?’ he said. ‘I don’t think so.’ ”• In the spring of 2014, HBO licensed its older shows to Amazon’s streaming service, giving the network fat fees. But, Businessweek reports, HBO’s in-house streaming team was upset at the arrangement. “Training people to go to Amazon Prime Video to watch classic HBO shows, they worried, could undermine the appeal of HBO’s own internet offerings.”• “HBO still doesn’t have much control over a key aspect of the direct-to-consumer streaming experience — the consumer.”Revolving doorMike Turner will resign as a director of Barclays.The law firm Sullivan & Cromwell has hired James Bromley from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton as a partner and co-head of its global restructuring group.Anne Dinning rejoined D.E. Shaw as a member of the hedge fund’s executive committee.Slate hired Jared Hohlt from New York magazine as its new editor in chief, succeeding Julia Turner.The speed readDeals• Aon won’t make a takeover bid for a rival insurance broker, Willis Towers Watson. (FT)• Sprint and T-Mobile have reportedly won the backing of the White House for their proposed merger, but have yet to win over the Justice Department or the F.C.C. (Fox Business)• Blackstone is reportedly close to raising $20 billion for its next big private equity fund. (Bloomberg)• Mario Batali has sold his stake in his restaurant empire to his business partners. (NYT)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen is said to have given the House Intelligence Committee evidence that shows President Trump’s lawyers made changes to a knowingly false written statement given to Congress. (NYT)• A House committee voted to advance a bill that would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024. (Axios)• Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, says he’s writing legislation that could prevent corporate insiders from selling shares within a certain time period after their companies announce a stock buyback. (CNBC)Tech• Congressional Democrats announced bills that would reinstate net neutrality rules. (Verge)• Facebook might be backing away from its plans to expand into China. (BuzzFeed News)• Just how likely to succeed is Tesla’s new online-only sales strategy? Also: The automaker is facing backlash in China from customers who won’t receive refunds to make up for new price cuts. (NYT, WSJ)• Amazon is closing its pop-up stores in the U.S., though it still has ambitious plans for physical retail. (NYT)Best of the rest• Meet Haven, the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase. (NYT)• The Fed says that the government shutdown slowed economic activity in some regions. (WSJ)• Carlos Ghosn is out of jail. What happens now? (NYT)• A ranking of the most visible brands in the U.S. placed the government bottom. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Hello, person who is, statistically speaking, a human adult aged approximately “millennial” to “boomer.” The analytics suggest a high likelihood that you’re aware there is an app named TikTok, and a similarly high likelihood that you’re not totally sure what it’s all about. Maybe you asked someone younger in your life, and they tried to explain and possibly failed. Or maybe you’ve heard that this new, extraordinarily popular video app is “a refreshing outlier in the social media universe” that’s “genuinely fun to use.” Maybe you even tried it, but bounced straight out, confused and sapped. “Fear of missing out” is a common way to describe how social media can make people feel like everyone else is part of something — a concert, a secret beach, a brunch — that they’re not. A new wrinkle in this concept is that sometimes that “something” is a social media platform itself. Maybe you saw a photo of some friends on Instagram at a great party and wondered why you weren’t there. But then, next in your feed, you saw a weird video, watermarked with a vibrating TikTok logo, scored with a song you’d never heard, starring a person you’d never seen. Maybe you saw one of the staggering number of ads for TikTok plastered throughout other social networks, and the real world, and wondered why you weren’t at that party, either, and why it seemed so far away. It’s been a while since a new social app got big enough, quickly enough, to make nonusers feel they’re missing out from an experience. If we exclude Fortnite, which is very social but also very much a game, the last time an app inspired such interest from people who weren’t on it was … maybe Snapchat? (Not a coincidence that Snapchat’s audience skewed very young, too.) And while you, perhaps an anxious abstainer, may feel perfectly secure in your “choice” not to join that service, Snapchat has more daily users than Twitter, changed the course of its industry, and altered the way people communicate with their phones. TikTok, now reportedly 500 million users strong, is not so obvious in its intentions. But that doesn’t mean it doesn’t have them! Shall we?The basic human explanation of TikTok.TikTok is an app for making and sharing short videos. The videos are tall, not square, like on Snapchat or Instagram’s stories, but you navigate through videos by scrolling up and down, like a feed, not by tapping or swiping side to side. Video creators have all sorts of tools at their disposal: filters as on Snapchat (and later, everyone else); the ability to search for sounds to score your video. Users are also strongly encouraged to engage with other users, through “response” videos or by means of “duets” — users can duplicate videos and add themselves alongside. Hashtags play a surprisingly large role on TikTok. In more innocent times, Twitter hoped its users might congregate around hashtags in a never-ending series of productive pop-up mini-discourses. On TikTok, hashtags actually exist as a real, functional organizing principle: not for news, or even really anything trending anywhere else than TikTok, but for various “challenges,” or jokes, or repeating formats, or other discernible blobs of activity. ► In this series of TikToks, @DonJuanFutrell goes shopping and reinvents language. ► In this TikTok, a popular song for memes is used to express shopping as a outsider.TikTok is, however, a free-for-all. It’s easy to make a video on TikTok, not just because of the tools it gives users, but because of extensive reasons and prompts it provides for you. You can select from an enormous range of sounds, from popular song clips to short moments from TV shows, YouTube videos or other TikToks. You can join a dare-like challenge, or participate in a dance meme, or make a joke. Or you can make fun of all of these things.TikTok assertively answers anyone’s what should I watch with a flood. In the same way, the app provides plenty of answers for the paralyzing what should I post? The result is an endless unspooling of material that people, many very young, might be too self-conscious to post on Instagram, or that they never would have come up with in the first place without a nudge. It can be hard to watch. It can be charming. It can be very, very funny. It is frequently, in the language widely applied outside the platform, from people on other platforms, extremely “cringe.” So that’s what’s on TikTok. What is it?TikTok can feel, to an American audience, a bit like a greatest hits compilation, featuring only the most engaging elements and experiences of its predecessors. This is true, to a point. But TikTok — known as Douyin in China, where its parent company is based — must also be understood as one of the most popular of many short-video-sharing apps in that country. This is a landscape that evolved both alongside and at arm’s length from the American tech industry — Instagram, for example, is banned in China.Under the hood, TikTok is a fundamentally different app than American users have used before. It may look and feel like its friend-feed-centric peers, and you can follow and be followed; of course there are hugely popular “stars,” many cultivated by the company itself. There’s messaging. Users can and do use it like any other social app. But the various aesthetic and functional similarities to Vine or Snapchat or Instagram belie a core difference: TikTok is more machine than man. In this way, it’s from the future — or at least a future. And it has some messages for us. Consider the trajectory of what we think of as the major social apps.Instagram and Twitter could only take us so far.Twitter gained popularity as a tool for following people and being followed by other people and expanded from there. Twitter watched what its users did with its original concept and formalized the conversational behaviors they invented. (See: Retweets. See again: hashtags.) Only then, and after going public, did it start to become more assertive. It made more recommendations. It started reordering users’ feeds based on what it thought they might want to see, or might have missed. Opaque machine intelligence encroached on the original system. ► This TikTok is a piece of unlikely yet sweet comedy about kids and vaccination.Something similar happened at Instagram, where algorithmic recommendation is now a very noticeable part of the experience, and on YouTube, where recommendations shuttle one around the platform in new and often … let’s say surprising ways. Some users might feel affronted by these assertive new automatic features, which are clearly designed to increase interaction. One might reasonably worry that this trend serves the lowest demands of a brutal attention economy that is revealing tech companies as cynical time-mongers and turning us into mindless drones. These changes have also tended to work, at least on those terms. We often do spend more time with the apps as they’ve become more assertive, and less intimately human, even as we’ve complained.What’s both crucial and easy to miss about TikTok is how it has stepped over the midpoint between the familiar self-directed feed and an experience based first on algorithmic observation and inference. The most obvious clue is right there when you open the app: the first thing you see isn’t a feed of your friends, but a page called “For You.” It’s an algorithmic feed based on videos you’ve interacted with, or even just watched. It never runs out of material. It is not, unless you train it to be, full of people you know, or things you’ve explicitly told it you want to see. It’s full of things that you seem to have demonstrated you want to watch, no matter what you actually say you want to watch.It is constantly learning from you and, over time, builds a presumably complex but opaque model of what you tend to watch, and shows you more of that, or things like that, or things related to that, or, honestly, who knows, but it seems to work. TikTok starts making assumptions the second you’ve opened the app, before you’ve really given it anything to work with. Imagine an Instagram centered entirely around its “Explore” tab, or a Twitter built around, I guess, trending topics or viral tweets, with “following” bolted onto the side.Imagine a version of Facebook that was able to fill your feed before you’d friended a single person. That’s TikTok.Its mode of creation is unusual, too. You can make stuff for your friends, or in response to your friends, sure. But users looking for something to post about are immediately recruited into group challenges, or hashtags, or shown popular songs. The bar is low. The stakes are low. Large audiences feel within reach, and smaller ones are easy to find, even if you’re just messing around.► This TikTok is a great example of “Fake Plane Challenge.”On most social networks the first step to showing your content to a lot of people is grinding to build an audience, or having lots of friends, or being incredibly beautiful or wealthy or idle and willing to display that, or getting lucky or striking viral gold. TikTok instead encourages users to jump from audience to audience, trend to trend, creating something like simulated temporary friend groups, who get together to do friend-group things: to share an inside joke; to riff on a song; to talk idly and aimlessly about whatever is in front of you. Feedback is instant and frequently abundant; virality has a stiff tailwind. Stimulation is constant. There is an unmistakable sense that you’re using something that’s expanding in every direction. The pool of content is enormous. Most of it is meaningless. Some of it becomes popular, and some is great, and some gets to be both. As The Atlantic’s Taylor Lorenz put it, “Watching too many in a row can feel like you’re about to have a brain freeze. They’re incredibly addictive.”TikTok is just doing to you what you told it to do.In 1994, the artist and software developer Karl Sims demonstrated “virtual creatures” that moved in realistic ways discovered through “genetic algorithms.” These simulations, through trial and error, gradually arrived at some pre-existing shapes and movements: wriggling, slithering, dragging and walking. But some early models, which emphasized the creatures’ ability to cover a certain distance as quickly as possible, resulted in the evolution of a very tall, rigid being that simply fell over. In doing so, it “moved” more quickly than a wriggling peer. It didn’t understand its evolutionary priority as “creature-like locomotion.” It needed to get to a certain place as efficiently as possible. And it did. Older social apps are continuously evolving, too. Their models prioritize growth and discovery, of course, but also assume the centrality of your people: the accounts you follow and which follow you, or with whom you communicate directly, and are bound up in their founding myths and structures: Facebook’s social graph; the News Feed; the Instagram feed; Twitter’s rigid user relationships. ► TikTok is often used for showing off talent like drawing, building and “transformation by makeup.”TikTok though is the towering stick falling far and fast, not caring to wait to evolve through a wriggling, cumbersome social phase, but instead asking: Why not just start showing people things and see what they do about it? Why not just ask people to start making things and see what happens? If engagement is how success is measured, why not just design the app where taking up time is the entire point? There’s no rule, in apps or elsewhere, against engagement for engagement’s sake. Let the creature grow tall and fall upon us all. In What Laboratory Was This Monster Made?TikTok is far from an evolutionary fluke. Its parent company, ByteDance, recently valued at more than $75 billion, bills itself first as an artificial intelligence company, not a creator of mission-driven social platforms. TikTok was merged with Musical.ly, a social network initially built around lip-syncing and dancing and adopted by very young people. It still carries a lot of Musical.ly’s DNA, and its app store reviews contain more than a little yearning for Musical.ly’s return. It was the defunct Musical.ly against which the Federal Trade Commission recently levied its largest-ever penalty for mishandling the private data of young users.► Press, twist and pull written on a hand are popular instructions to receive a message that is revealed to be written on the palm. “Almost got kicked out of my house for this one” claimed a user.“ByteDance’s content platforms enable people to enjoy content powered by AI technology,” its website says. Its vision is “to build global creation and interaction platforms.” ByteDance’s wildly popular news and entertainment portal, Jinri Toutiao (translated as “Today’s Headlines,”) relies heavily on AI — not human editors, or a self-selected feed of accounts — to curate and create customized streams of largely user-and-partner-generated content tailored to each of its readers. These are services where a sort of “filter” bubble — isolating users into worlds of points of view — isn’t an unintended consequence. It’s the point. And it’s extremely effective: Both Toutiao and Douyin have drawn attention from Chinese regulators for, among many other things, some familiar to any large social-ish platform, and others unique to its speech-constrained political environment, capturing too much user time. As a result, TikTok’s “Digital Wellbeing” settings include an option to enforce a password-protected time limit. The company’s other challenges can be addressed more assertively: an algorithm-first attention market isn’t just centrally ruled, it’s centrally allocated.Why Do People Spend Hours on TikTok? It’s the Machines.All of this goes a long way to explain why, at least at first, TikTok can seem disorienting. “You’re not actually sure why you’re seeing what you’re seeing,” said Ankur Thakkar, the former editorial lead at Vine, TikTok’s other most direct forerunner. On Vine, a new user might not have had much to watch, or felt much of a reason to create anything, but they understood their context: the list of people they followed, which was probably the thing letting them down. “It’s doing the thing that Twitter tried to solve, that everyone tried to solve,” he said. “How do you get people to engage?” Apparently you just … show them things, and let a powerful artificial intelligence take notes. You start sending daily notifications immediately. You tell them what to do. You fake it till you make it, algorithmically speaking. ImageA friendly daily reminder to re-engageAmerican social platforms, each fighting their own desperate and often stock-price-related fights to increase user engagement, have been trending in TikTok’s general direction for a while. It is possible, today, to receive highly personalized and effectively infinite content recommendations in YouTube without ever following a single account, because Google already watches what you do, and makes guesses about who you are. And while Facebook and Twitter don’t talk about their products this way, we understand that sometimes — maybe a lot of the time — we use them just to fill time. They, in turn, want as much of our time as possible, and are quite obviously doing whatever they can to get it.So maybe you’ll sit TikTok out. But these things have a way of sneaking up behind you. Maybe you never joined Snapchat — but its rise worried Facebook so much that its prettier product, Instagram, was remade in its image, and copied concepts from Snapchat reached you there.And maybe you skipped Twitter — but it still rewired your entire news diet, and, besides, it’s how the president talks to you, now. TikTok does away with many of the assumptions other social platforms have been built upon, and which they are in the process of discarding anyway. It questions the primacy of individual connections and friend networks. It unapologetically embraces central control rather than pretending it doesn’t have it. TikTok’s real influence going forward may be that the other social media platforms decide that our friends were simply holding us back. Or, at least, it was holding them back. SEATTLE — When Texas officials pushed Amazon to pay nearly $270 million in back sales taxes in 2010, Amazon responded by closing its only warehouse in the state and scrapping expansion plans there. Two years later, the officials agreed to waive the past taxes in exchange for Amazon opening new warehouses.A similar scene played out in South Carolina, where officials decided in 2011 to deny Amazon a sales tax break. After threatening to stop hiring in the state, the company got the tax exemption by promising to hire more people.And last year in Seattle, the company’s hometown, Amazon halted plans to build one tower and threatened to lease out one under construction when local officials pushed a tax on large employers. The City Council passed a smaller version of the tax, but the company helped finance a successful opposition to repeal it. Now, Amazon plans to lease out its space in the tower under construction anyway.In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio called it a “shock to the system” when Amazon, facing criticism for the deal it reached to build a headquarters in the city, abruptly dropped the plans. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is still trying to woo them back. But the reversal mirrored the company’s interactions with officials in other states.Virtually all of America’s largest businesses drive a hard bargain with governments, angling for benefits and financial incentives. Amazon, though, often plays politics with a distinctive message: Give us what we want, or we’ll leave and take our jobs elsewhere.The tactics help Amazon squeeze as much as possible out of politicians.“They are just as cutthroat as can be,” said Alex Pearlstein, vice president at Market Street Services, which helps cities, including those with Amazon warehouses, attract employers.New York’s experience with Amazon also exposed the company’s limited experience with building community relationships. The company did not hire any local employees or lobbyists to connect with New York residents in advance of announcing the deal. Until recent years, almost no one at the company worked full-time in community or government relations, though it now has more than 100 lobbyists registered in statehouses to push its priorities.That lack of a significant on-the-ground strategy helped doom the deal in New York, and it is causing headaches elsewhere.Amazon’s promise to deliver practically any item within two days means that it needs warehouses near major population centers, not just where it gets the best deal. In Edison, N.J., noise complaints pressured the company to spend $3 million to build a high wall around a warehouse. Outside of Chicago in Joliet, Ill., Amazon pays for an extra police officer to help manage traffic — and lawmakers want the company to do more.“Amazon doesn’t like any friction,” said Margaret O’Mara, a professor at the University of Washington who researches the history of tech companies. But the desire for more urban locations, she said, means “it can’t be my way or the highway.”The company’s initial pitch is usually simple, saying that its offices and warehouses will deliver quality jobs. And it banks on the public’s widespread trust in the company’s low prices, wide selection and fast delivery. Many politicians and locals are delighted when Amazon arrives and say that the company delivers the jobs it has pledged.Over all, the company has collected more than $2.4 billion taxpayer subsidies for its offices, warehouses and data centers, according to Good Jobs First, a nonprofit organization that tracks corporate tax breaks.A company spokeswoman said, “Amazon has created more than 250,000 full-time American jobs and has invested hundreds of billions of dollars into the U.S. economy.” She added, “We are active participants working to support the communities where we operate.”Asked recently by a business publication if Amazon would change anything about the headquarters search in retrospect, Holly Sullivan, the Amazon executive who led the search, said: “You know, no. I think it was rewarding for us internally.”Resistance to Sales TaxIn 2010, Texas’s top finance official said Amazon owed $269 million because it had failed to pay sales taxes from 2005 to 2009. Amazon said it did not need to collect the tax because it lacked brick-and-mortar stores in the state. It then shuttered its warehouse at the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport that employed about 120 people and dropped plans to build more outposts in Texas.Under a settlement in 2012, the state gave up on the tax charges in exchange for Amazon’s promise to create 2,500 jobs and spend at least $200 million on facilities. Amazon also agreed to begin collecting sales tax and pay the state.Once the deal was reached, Amazon expanded rapidly across Texas, with millions in subsidies from the state. The company now operates about 20 sites in Texas.“In our viewpoint, it’s a lot better to get them into compliance voluntarily than spend a whole lot of time fighting about the past periods,” said Karey Barton, the state’s associate deputy comptroller for tax.For one of the new warehouses, in San Marcos, between Austin and San Antonio, Amazon received a $16.6 million tax rebate. The warehouse has nearly 3,000 employees, making it the largest private employer in town.“Everything that they told us and promised us on the number of jobs and that kind of thing has surpassed their timelines,” said Kristy Stark, the communications director for the City of San Marcos. “We have nothing but positive things to say.”Amazon waged a nearly identical war in South Carolina, when officials, including then-Gov. Nikki Haley, a Republican, opposed a sales tax break. It pulled job listings off its website for a warehouse under construction near Columbia and canceled contracts for the new facility.The threat worked, rallying support from businesses and government leaders. The legislature gave Amazon a five-year grace period for collecting sales taxes, while Amazon conceded that it would tell residents how much they owed in sales tax.And the company resumed hiring in the state, where it now has at least three facilities.Hometown FightAmazon grew from start-up to behemoth in Seattle, devouring new towers and buildable land.Nevertheless, the company kept its distance from local lawmakers. In 2009, the mayor and governor threw a groundbreaking ceremony for new Amazon buildings. No Amazon executives attended.In recent years, Amazon made some gestures of civic responsibility, including in 2017, when it committed to build a shelter for homeless families in a new tower. That year, Amazon also hired its first employee to build a team focused on philanthropy. More than a dozen people now work on that effort.But it didn’t speak up on policy issues, including ways to address the skyrocketing housing prices in the area. That changed in 2018, when the City Council debated a tax on large employers, which was meant to pay for homeless services and affordable housing.Amazon stood up in opposition, telling a newspaper columnist that it would halt plans to build one new tower and reconsider its lease on a second. The threat sent shock waves through the city.After a wrenching public process, the city passed a head tax that was roughly half the size of the initial proposal.That did not placate Amazon, which said the city was not effectively spending the money it already had. The message struck a chord with some frustrated homeowners, who said that the city spent millions on the homeless programs and yet encampments stood by their homes and parks. They joined forces on a signature drive to put a repeal of the tax on the ballot.Amazon was one of largest donors to a repeal campaign, which paid about $345,000 to a firm, Morning in America, to gather signatures and print fliers and shirts.With anger growing over the tax, the council relented and repealed it. “This is not a winnable battle at this time,” Lisa Herbold, a member of the City Council, said before the vote. “The opposition has unlimited resources.”New HeadachesAs Amazon expands, including closer to more major cities like New York and Chicago, it is facing more local demands.“People think that Amazon is a 100 percent sleek machine,” said Beth Gutelius, a researcher at the University of Illinois at Chicago with a focus on warehouses. In reality, a lot falls through the cracks. “Even if they are trying to be strategic locally, they can’t actually do it because they are so big and sprawling.”In late 2017, Amazon opened a warehouse in Edison, N.J., near New York. The site used to be a quiet warehouse for comforters and bedding, but lights now shine and trucks rumble at all hours. Amazon made some changes, like having the trucks emit a low hiss, rather than beep, on the loading docks. But neighbors said commotion was still intrusive.Lisa Bukachevsky, who lives behind the warehouse, said she tried to hire a lawyer, but none would take her case. “They said, ‘You don’t have enough money to fight Amazon,’” she said.The town attorney took up the issue, and Amazon hired a sound engineer and then constructed the 20-foot tall wall that cost $3 million.The wall helps block the light, but not much of the noise, Ms. Bukachevsky said. She and her husband, Mark, say Amazon could have saved a lot of headache if it had consulted the community first.“I’m not anti-Amazon,” Mr. Bukachevsky said, adding that he owns Amazon stock. “I’m anti-noise.”In Illinois, Amazon initially resisted opening facilities because that would have required it to start collecting sales taxes, said John E. Greuling, the president of the Will County Center for Economic Development. But then, Mr. Greuling said, “They realized Illinois was too important a location for them.”Just a few years later, the company has 7,000 people across five facilities in Will County, which includes Joliet, making it the largest employer in an area evolving into a major logistics hub. The first Amazon warehouse to open in Joliet received a state tax incentive of $71.5 million for up to 10 years.About two miles south of downtown Joliet, along State Route 53, a routine plays out several times a day that causes some dread among locals. Amazon employees’ cars line up along a narrow street perpendicular to the highway. One after the next, they turn onto the busy four-lane thoroughfare, creating a long caravan during shift changes.Local residents trying to maneuver their way along this major artery can get stuck sitting at stop signs for 5 or 10 minutes. Amazon pays a local police officer to manage the flow during the holiday season and is part of a public-private group working to address traffic.Some local officials, including Denise Winfrey, the Will County board speaker, say they fear the deals that lured Amazon and other major companies to the region did not give the state enough resources to fix the infrastructure, which is increasingly stressed as Amazon and others use them.“If you’re in the area, using the resources, you have the people, you’re stopping through the neighborhoods, you’re driving through the streets — you have some responsibility to make sure that you are contributing positively to the community beyond the jobs,” Ms. Winfrey said.SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft officially signaled on Monday that it sought to have the biggest technology initial public offering since 2014, setting the stage for a bonanza of riches for young tech companies this year.The ride-hailing company said in a new regulatory filing that it hoped to be valued at up to $23 billion when it lists on the stock market as soon as next week, the highest number for a tech company since Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, went public at a $169 billion valuation in 2014. Lyft’s target value is significantly greater than its $15.1 billion valuation in its last private funding round, a sign that it expects a warm reception from investors.That provides a benchmark for other tech companies that are preparing to go public this year, including Lyft’s chief rival, Uber, as well as Pinterest, Postmates, Slack and others. All are seeking high valuations, with their offerings likely to bring a wave of wealth to tech investors, founders and early employees that will once again rev up the Silicon Valley start-up ecosystem. Lyft’s I.P.O. is expected to be quickly eclipsed by Uber, which may go public at a valuation of up to $120 billion.“We’re looking at Lyft as a bellwether for the summer I.P.O. market,” said Matthew Kennedy, a senior I.P.O. market strategist at Renaissance Capital. “The others in the pipeline are all watching Lyft and looking to see whether investors are interested in companies that are highly unprofitable but highly valuable.”But in a troubling trend for some investors, Lyft’s new filing also revealed how tech founders are continuing to assert control over their companies in a way that gives other shareholders very little say. Because of a mechanism that gives Lyft’s two founders — Logan Green, the chief executive, and John Zimmer, the president — outsize voting rights, the duo will own less than 5 percent of the company’s outstanding stock once it is public but they will control nearly 49 percent of its voting shares.The filing coincided with the start of Lyft’s so-called road show, a two-week run of meetings during which company executives and advisers will try to persuade prospective investors to grab a piece of what will the first ride-hailing firm to go public.Lyft’s offering will test how investors value the ride-hailing business model. Lyft and Uber have demonstrated rapid growth but neither company is profitable, and each spends heavily on subsidies for riders and drivers in an effort to win market share from each other. Lyft lost $911.3 million last year on revenue of $2.2 billion, the company disclosed in an earlier filing.In its new filing, Lyft proposed a high-end share price of $62 to $68, a range that would generate about $2.1 billion, and perhaps as much as $2.4 billion if demand for shares is great enough for the company to increase the number it makes available.Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer are set to reap hundreds of millions of dollars apiece as a result of the offering, the updated prospectus showed. Mr. Green’s stake would be worth about $569 million at the high end of the expected initial share price; Mr. Zimmer’s would be worth about $393 million.Perhaps more important, the two men would retain control of Lyft, thanks to their ownership of a special class of shares that gives them 20 times the voting power of regular shareholders, despite each of them owning less than 3 percent of the company.The arrangement is common in I.P.O.s by founder-led technology companies. Facebook and Snap, for example, ensured that their creators would keep an iron grip on their businesses. But the practice has been criticized by investor advocates who say that it creates a disadvantage for regular shareholders.“This arrangement imposes a significant gap between those who exercise control over the company, and those who have economic exposure to the consequences of that control,” a coalition of institutional investors wrote in a letter last week to Lyft’s board that asked them to reconsider the arrangement.In a video promoting the company’s roadshow that was also released on Monday, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer discussed their reasons for founding Lyft. The video showed Mr. Green, 35, riding a public bus in San Francisco and recalling a visit to Zimbabwe, where he drew inspiration from car pools he saw there. Mr. Zimmer, 34, reflected on his time in hotel management while wandering through a hotel parking garage.In the video, the pair then meet in the back seat of a car, where they hinted at their advantages: Their company is still led by its founders, they said, and is solely focused on consumer transportation without side bets in food delivery and freight shipments. Their message was a dig at Uber, whose founders are no longer in executive roles at the company and which has expanded into food delivery with Uber Eats and freight shipments with Uber Freight.“Car ownership in the U.S. is failing people,” Mr. Zimmer said in the video, suggesting that the transportation industry will eventually flip from car ownership to ride services like Lyft.The price for Lyft’s shares is expected to be finalized on March 28, according to Ipreo, setting the company up to begin trading on the stock market on March 29.SAN FRANCISCO — Riley Newman, a former head of data science at Airbnb, set out in mid-2017 to raise a venture capital fund that would invest in a multitude of tech trends.But he quickly realized that potential investors were not interested in that kind of fund. Instead, all they wanted to hear about were his former Airbnb colleagues and whether they might start their own companies.“It was, ‘Yeah, all that stuff is fine, but Airbnb, right?’” Mr. Newman, 36, said. “Airbnb was where we had a competitive edge on the market.”So Mr. Newman and his partners at Wave Capital adjusted their pitch: They said they were creating a fund to invest specifically in Airbnb employees who were planning to leave the company to become entrepreneurs. It worked. He and his partners quickly secured $55 million and now are preparing to make a flood of investments after the $31 billion home rental start-up goes public sometime in the next year and employees cash out their shares.“We know they are planning to start companies,” Mr. Newman said of Airbnb employees, adding that in the last week alone he had heard from four who left to pursue their entrepreneurial dreams.Everyone else in Silicon Valley seems to know it, too. As Lyft, Pinterest, Postmates, Slack and Uber — among some of this decade’s most prominent start-ups — get ready to list on the stock market, investors are preparing to write checks to a new generation of companies created by their workers.It’s part of Silicon Valley’s often-incestuous circle of life. The start-up world projects a meritocratic image, but in reality, it is a small, tightknit club where success typically hinges on whom you know.In this model, employees of tech start-ups frequently leave the companies once they have been enriched by their firms’ initial public offerings. Then networks of alumni from these companies — called mafias — support their peers’ new businesses with hiring, advice and money.The cycle goes back to at least the 1950s, when Fairchild Semiconductor, one of Silicon Valley’s earliest successes, was started by a group of disgruntled Shockley Semiconductor employees called the Traitorous Eight.Decades later, early employees of PayPal, known as the PayPal Mafia, are more famous for their successes after leaving the company — many of which they collaborated on with one another — than for their initial breakthrough in digital payments. The group includes Elon Musk and Peter Thiel, as well as the creators of YouTube, Yelp and LinkedIn.Silicon Valley is now anticipating new mafias connected to Uber, Airbnb and their brethren after the companies go public.“It’s going to trigger a massive explosion in entrepreneurship,” said Howard Lindzon, an entrepreneur in Phoenix who invests in five to 10 venture capital funds a year. He said he particularly wanted to put money into funds with connections to the Uber and Airbnb networks.When venture capitalists pounceVenture capital firms are already hiring former employees from Uber and other I.P.O.-ready companies to get a foothold in their networks. Some of the fiercest recruiting has been of Uber executives, with venture firms including Sequoia Capital, GV, Javelin Venture Partners and Redpoint Ventures all adding former employees from the ride-hailing firm to their ranks.One recruit was Andrew Chen, who worked at Uber as head of rider growth and left the company last year. He has since joined the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner and hosts quarterly dinners for Uber alumni turned founders.Mr. Chen, 36, estimates that two dozen venture-backed start-ups have come out of Uber so far. Andreessen Horowitz has recently invested in two, which have not been announced.“Those are the prime start-up investing opportunities,” Mr. Chen said.The problem is that venture firms might create a brain drain from the likes of Airbnb and Uber if they keep luring the companies’ workers to start new companies. Talent, after all, is a precious commodity in Silicon Valley.Jonathan Golden, who worked as a director of product at Airbnb and who joined the venture firm NEA last year, said Airbnb was fine with his plans to invest in former employees. He said he had discussed his intentions with Airbnb’s chief executive, Brian Chesky, before he left the company in 2017.“I’m not actively trying to have people leave Airbnb,” Mr. Golden said. “But if someone is going to leave, I want to be supportive of them, and Brian is supportive of them as well.”Nick Papas, an Airbnb spokesman, said, “We’re always sad when talented people move on, but it’s been great to watch so many of our former colleagues succeed.”Uber declined to comment.In February, Annie Kadavy, a former Uber executive who is now a venture capitalist at Redpoint, announced an investment in Ike, a self-driving truck company created by — who else? — ex-Uber employees.Ms. Kadavy, 33, who left Uber last year, said her network of former ride-hailing colleagues would help her find and vet deals. In addition, it would help find talent to bring to other start-ups that Redpoint has invested in.“If you’re a person leaving a company, who are you going to ask about what company to join next?” she said. “Your friend who works at a venture firm, because their job is to have a point of view on a bunch of different businesses.”Friends in high (income) placesIn February 2018, Dan Hill and Michelle Rittenhouse, longtime Airbnb employees, felt the entrepreneurial itch and quit. They had a general idea to start a company that would make it easier for people to donate to charity, but not much else.The details didn’t matter to Wave Capital, which wanted to invest in them. “These are people we know can build great products,” said Mr. Newman. “They know us, they trust us. We know them, we trust them.”Within a few weeks of leaving Airbnb, Mr. Hill and Ms. Rittenhouse had secured $2 million — including from Wave Capital — for Alma, their newly formed company focused on philanthropy.Entrepreneurs typically make dozens of pitches over several months to raise financing. But Mr. Hill said the relatively quick fund-raising for his start-up was not a surprise.“We already had a strong relationship,” he said. “So when we pitched the idea for Alma and our initial plans, it was an easier conversation.”It’s a common story among former employees of hot start-ups. Andrew Chapin, who previously worked at Uber, also said it wasn’t hard to round up $3.75 million last October for Basis, his new mental health start-up, thanks to his reputation among the Uber crowd.“When you look at V.C., there is a lot of pattern matching and trying to act on that, so if you worked at Uber, you must be O.K.,” Mr. Chapin, 31, said. “I didn’t have to do a lot of pitching.”It helps that many of his former colleagues are now millionaires, having cashed out their shares in private stock sales.A syndicate of several hundred former Uber employees are even investing in start-ups together. Josh Mohrer and William Barnes, early Uber employees who left in 2017, said they used a private email list to manage the syndicate’s deal selection, adding a few new people to the list each week as they “graduate” from the company. The group has backed around a dozen start-ups at a pace of around one a month, they said.To stay on top of all the new companies emerging from Uber, Mr. Mohrer and Mr. Barnes said, they have organized reunions of former employees in cities around the world, using a Facebook group with more than 1,000 members.The pair also plan to raise an investment fund dedicated to backing Uber alumni under the banner of Moving Capital, according to three people familiar with the project, who asked to remain anonymous because the details are private.It’s different this timeHow will Silicon Valley’s new mafias be different from those in the past?The Uber and Airbnb networks are part of a generation that pioneered the on-demand “gig economy” and everything that came with it. That means many fought real-world policy issues in cities, as opposed to primarily dealing with the digital world.“There are just not that many places to find people who have seen that kind of scale,” said Ryan Graves, Uber’s former senior vice president of global operations and a member of the company’s board.Each city that Uber, Airbnb, Lyft or Postmates expanded into created a new set of operational, regulatory and business challenges. Regulators balked. Rival business operators resisted. Neighbors protested. And people abused the platforms, over and over.Uber managers ran each city like a mini-start-up. “If you were the general manager of San Francisco or of Atlanta, you were the C.E.O. of your region,” Mr. Chen said. “It led to a really entrepreneurial approach from everyone.”The thorniest challenge for Uber alumni may be showing that they have learned from the company’s ugly 2017, when its toxic culture of harassment, discrimination and ethical lapses was exposed.Blaine Light, a former Uber employee, said he had taken the importance of creating an inclusive culture to heart. Half of the employees at Qwick, a 20-person start-up in Phoenix that he joined as a co-founder in 2018, are women, and the staff includes a mix of races, backgrounds and sexual orientations. Mr. Light said he emphasized a culture of humility.“Uber people, in general, are looking to take what we’ve learned and make something better this time,” he said.Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Prosecutors and regulators circle BoeingIn the wake of two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane that shared similarities, Boeing finds itself with prosecutors and regulators inspecting its development processes and safety assessments.• A grand jury in Washington, D.C., issued a subpoena dated March 11 — the day after the Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents from at least one person involved in the development of the 737 Max jets, the WSJ reports.• The Transportation Department inspector general’s office was also reportedly examining the plane’s design certification before the second deadly crash.• An investigation by The Seattle Times found that the F.A.A. delegated wide responsibility for the 737 Max safety assessment to Boeing itself. The resulting analysis included “crucial flaws,” according to the investigation.• And Bloomberg reports that as early as seven years ago, F.A.A. employees warned that Boeing “had too much sway over safety approvals of new aircraft.”Boeing said in a statement on Sunday that “aircraft certification processes are well established and have consistently produced safe aircraft designs.” It added that the “737 Max certification program followed the F.A.A.’s standard certification process.”Lyft thinks it’s worth up to $23 billionThe ride-hailing company will start the road show for its I.P.O. today in New York City. It won’t be short on ambition: Lyft hopes to achieve a valuation of as much as $23 billion.In its updated prospectus, Lyft said that it hopes to raise nearly $2.4 billion from its I.P.O. That figure is close to the $2.16 billion in revenue that it generated last year.At the high end of its proposed stock price, $68, the company would be valued at $23 billion. That would make the stakes held by each of the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, worth hundreds of millions of dollars apiece. The company is expected to price its offering on March 28, and would then trade on the Nasdaq the next day.Lyft is poised to become one of the biggest market debuts by a tech company since the Alibaba Group’s I.P.O. in 2014. (Until Uber goes public later this year, at least.)But the I.P.O. is not without controversy. It’s facing backlash from investors who aren’t happy about a dual-class stock structure. Paul Singer, the head of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, is one of them, writing in an FT op-ed:“Those with the insight and daring to found a business deserve our respect. But once they sell the vast majority of the company to the public, they should not be allowed to run it forever without any shareholder input. Public ownership must mean public accountability.”Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank take their merger effort publicThe two German lenders announced yesterday that they will formally begin merger talks. Now they must convince critics that combining is a good thing.Deutsche Bank said it was reviewing “strategic options” for shoring up its profitability and growth. Christian Sewing, the firm’s C.E.O., told employees, “I have consistently stressed that consolidation in the German and European banking sector is an important topic for us.”The combined bank would be one of Europe’s biggest, with $2 trillion in assets and about one-fifth of all private customers in Germany.Going public signals that the deal has political backing. Germany’s finance minister has argued that the country needs a strong national champion to compete against foreign banks. (Here is the FT’s list of the key decision-makers for any deal.)But opposition to a merger is strong. German unions have criticized the plan, fearing tens of thousands of job cuts. And Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg Opinion warns that it wouldn’t fix the bigger problems in the German banking system.It’s hard work making the world shun HuaweiThe Trump administration’s campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei equipment in their 5G wireless networks has faltered, Julian E. Barnes and Adam Satariano of the NYT write.American officials have been pressuring and threatening other nations to shun Huawei. The push is rooted in U.S. concerns that Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat, and could help Beijing spy on other nations.But it’s not really working. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates have all signaled that they are unlikely to follow America’s lead.The U.S. campaign has been criticized for a lack of evidence. American intelligence briefings have reportedly failed to clearly show how the Chinese government has used Huawei to steal information. (Read what five experts and two senators have to say about whether it is a threat.) Some European and Asian officials also believe that President Trump may not fully support the fight.American officials want to find other ways to curb Huawei’s rise, Mr. Barnes and Mr. Satariano write, “including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.”More: Huawei has built its own operating system for smartphones and computers, to be used if the company can no longer use software developed by Google and Microsoft.Wall Street’s first #MeToo case could go to trialThe financial sector hasn’t felt the impact of #MeToo as much as other industries. But as David Gelles of the NYT reports, a lawsuit against the asset manager TCW could change that.• Sara Tirschwell, who created a distressed-debt fund at TCW but was fired in 2017, has sued the firm; her former boss, Jess Ravich; and the C.E.O., David Lippman. She claimed that her dismissal was retaliation against her for reporting a sexual harassment claim against Mr. Ravich, gender discrimination and a breach of contract.• Ms. Tirschwell alleges that Mr. Ravich pressured her into sex several times during her tenure with the firm. The first encounter made her feel, according to her lawsuit, “as if rejection would mean the end of Ravich’s crucial support.”• TCW, Mr. Ravich and Mr. Lippman denied the allegations. “I was Sara’s biggest supporter at TCW and had no role in the decision to fire her,” Mr. Ravich said.• So far, there’s been no talk of a settlement. Mr. Gelles writes, “Days in court have been rare for the movement — and rarer still for Wall Street, where grievances are typically dealt with in private, and by wire transfer, when they are dealt with at all.”S&P 500 chiefs got big raises last yearDespite delivering disappointing returns to investors, many C.E.O.s saw their compensation climb last year, according to the WSJ.• “Median compensation for 132 chief executives of S&P 500 companies reached $12.4 million in 2018, up from $11.7 million for the same group in 2017,” the WSJ calculates.• “Most of these C.E.O.s received substantial raises — the median was 6.4 percent — even though the December stock-market swoon meant most of the companies finished out the year posting sluggish shareholder returns.”• “Markets did pretty well, companies did well, and the economy held up,” Robin Ferracone, an executive-pay consultant, told the WSJ.• But she also said that boards may have been thinking forward to an economic slowdown, adding, “They know they’re going to have to bring it down when the bloom’s off the rose.”Big Tech’s extremism problemThe shooting at a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, was designed to go viral on the internet. What can we do about it?“The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook,” Kevin Roose of the NYT writes. “The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them.”“Online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs,” Mr. Roose adds. “People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.”But telling terrorists from trolls isn’t easy for tech companies, Christopher Mims of the WSJ argues. Knowing which online extremists will erupt with an act of violence can be virtually impossible, and their broadcasts of sudden acts of violence can be hard to automatically block.More needs to be done. “We need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore,” Mr. Roose writes. “It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better.”Revolving doorPG&E is reportedly close to naming Bill Johnson, the outgoing head of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as its next C.E.O.Google named Scott Beaumont, the head of its greater China and Korea operations, as the chief of its Asia-Pacific team.Stuart Benson resigned as the C.F.O. of MoviePass.Princeville Capital, a venture capital firm that invests in climate technology, has recruited Leonardo DiCaprio as an adviser.The speed readDeals• Fidelity National Information Services agreed to buy an international payments processor, Worldpay, for $34 billion. (The companies)• Caesars Entertainment and Eldorado Resorts are reportedly in early merger talks. (Reuters)• Private equity firms like KKR and CVC Capital Partners are reportedly interested in buying Bayer’s animal-health division. (Bloomberg)• PagerDuty, a popular start-up that alerts I.T. workers to tech problems that need fixing, publicly filed for an I.P.O. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Investors eagerly await the Treasury Department’s rules for investing in tax-advantaged opportunity zones. (NYT)• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro over a monologue questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the U.S. — and President Trump was unhappy about the move. (NYT)• Cindy Yang, the former owner of a massage parlor busted in a prostitution ring, has come under scrutiny for political activities, including donations to the president’s re-election campaign. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to put her Brexit deal up for a third parliamentary vote this week, but that is likely contingent on gaining the backing of the Democratic Unionist Party. (FT)• Meanwhile, the Labour Party appears set to support a plan that would seek a public vote on Mrs. May’s deal if it is approved by lawmakers. (Reuters)Trade• The U.S. and China are pushing for a meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, but negotiators are still grappling over the details. (NYT)• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska has sued the U.S. Treasury Department over sanctions placed on him last year. (CNBC)• President Xi Jinping of China starts a series of state visits to Europe this week in a bid to bolster trade with the continent. (Bloomberg)Tech• Marc Andreessen, a Facebook board member, reportedly met with the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie in 2016. If true, it would suggest he understood the extent of the company’s harvesting of Facebook data. He denies the claim. (Observer, Business Insider)• In related news, the academic behind Cambridge Analytica’s data mining has sued Facebook for defamation. (NYT)• Apple is making a billion-dollar bet to take on Netflix. Will it work? (NYT)• Tech investors are now including #MeToo clauses in their start-up deals. (FT)• Breaking up tech giants has suddenly become a populist concept — but not in San Francisco. (NYT, Bloomberg)Best of the rest• In the wake of the admissions scandal, colleges are rethinking athletic special admissions. (WSJ)• The Fed is likely to say later this week that it has little appetite for more interest rate rises this year. (WSJ)• Why do successful joint ventures turn sour? It’s often because the success breeds a desire for control that the venture sought to avoid. (Economist)• The European Central Bank is unhappy about the E.U.’s plans for increasing supervision of clearing houses. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Uber is in talks to sell a stake in its self-driving technologies unit to SoftBank and other investors for as much as $1 billion, as the ride-hailing company prepares to go public, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.The talks are still underway and may not result in an investment, said the people, who asked for anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. Apart from SoftBank, the investor consortium includes an automaker, they added.Under the terms of the proposed deal, investors would purchase from a pool of Uber stock specifically earmarked for the self-driving technologies unit. Uber would maintain majority control of the self-driving arm and would use the investment to fund its research and development. The deal would value the self-driving business at $5 billion to $10 billion, the people said.Uber filed confidentially to go public in December in what would be one of the largest tech initial public offerings of recent years. The company, based in San Francisco, could hit a valuation of $120 billion when it reaches the stock market.But Uber is under scrutiny for its losses — its net loss was $842 million in the fourth quarter — and self-driving technologies are expensive. A $1 billion infusion could ease worries about how costly it is to develop autonomous cars.The proposed investment was earlier reported by The Wall Street Journal.Uber has for years invested heavily in self-driving cars, which it has said will eventually become a primary mode of transportation, replacing its human drivers. But its autonomous unit, formed in 2014, loses between $100 million and $200 million each quarter. Its fleet of vehicles was also grounded for nine months last year after one of the autonomous cars struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona. In the past, Uber has considered spinning off the unit as a separate entity.Uber Freight, the company’s long-haul trucking business, also has a separate valuation based on pools of equity specifically earmarked for the unit. As part of an agreement with employees, the company rewarded them with equity in Uber Freight as a stand-alone business late last year.SoftBank is already a major investor in Uber after it acquired about 17.5 percent of the ride-hailing firm’s stock last year at a significant discount. In addition to Uber, SoftBank has poured money into ride-hailing companies such as Ola in India and Grab in Southeast Asia.SoftBank has also invested in businesses focused on autonomous vehicles. In mid-2018, the firm invested $2.25 billion in GM Cruise Holdings, a division of General Motors. Structuring Cruise as a separate entity made it possible for General Motors to isolate the losses from its autonomous division.In August, Toyota invested $500 million in Uber. The move was meant to let Uber put its self-driving technology in Toyota vehicles.“Toyota constantly reviews and considers various options for investment, but we do not have anything to announce about a further investment in Uber at this time,” a Toyota spokeswoman said on Wednesday.Good Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Rate rises appear to be off the tableThe Federal Reserve painted a far less rosy economic picture than the White House as it left interest rates unchanged yesterday, and signaled little appetite for any raises in the near future, Jim Tankersley of the NYT writes.Growth appears to be slowing from last year, Jay Powell, the Fed chairman, said. That’s a result of the trade war, economic slowdowns in Europe and China and fading stimulus from the 2017 tax cuts. The central bank now expects 2.1 percent growth this year, down from its 2.3 percent forecast in December — and more than a percentage point less than the 3.2 percent the White House predicts.Rate hikes seem to be off the table. Forecasts show that Fed officials broadly expect not to raise rates at all this year, with a single rate increase in 2020 and none in 2021. In December, they expected two rate increases this year and another in 2020.“The Fed is effectively giving Mr. Trump what he wants from monetary policy, but with a twist,” Mr. Tankersley writes. “The president has publicly pushed Mr. Powell to stop raising rates. But if the Fed is correct and growth falls well below 3 percent this year, without a single rate increase, it will be difficult for Mr. Trump to pin the blame on Mr. Powell.”Wall Street couldn’t be happier. Sectors sensitive to interest rates have posted some of the bigger gains in the current stock market rally, Matt Phillips of the NYT writes, despite forecasts of an economic slowdown.More: Mr. Trump’s tax cut won’t power the growth he predicts, White House officials have conceded. C.E.O.s’ economic confidence, as measured by a Business Roundtable survey, fell for the fourth quarter in a row.Europe’s antitrust assault on Big Tech continuesEuropean regulators slapped Google with a $1.7 billion fine yesterday for antitrust violations involving the search service it offers other websites — the third major financial penalty imposed on the tech company in Europe since 2017.Google demanded websites using its search bar let it limit the display of any search-driven ads from rivals, according to E.U. officials. “There was no reason for Google to include these restrictive clauses in its contracts, except to keep its rivals out of the market,” Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s top antitrust official, said yesterday.The E.U. forced Google to change its behavior even before the fine. The company stopped its ad requirements when Ms. Vestager began her inquiry in 2016, leading to what Lionel Laurent of Bloomberg Opinion calls “clear changes to its business model,” which have “gone some way to opening it up slightly to more competition.”Europe isn’t done with Google yet. “The commission is continuing its investigations into other conduct by the company, including its handling of local search results,” the WSJ reports, adding that those inquiries may not lead to charges.Expect broader action against Big Tech. Adam Satariano of the NYT reports that the E.U. is expected to adopt new copyright proposals to stop unlicensed content being shared on tech platforms, as well as restrictions on spreading hate speech. And its antitrust lawyers are taking a close look at Amazon, Apple and Facebook as well.But does any of this matter? The E.U. has now fined Google $9.2 billion, but that’s a drop in the bucket compared to the company’s $137 billion in annual revenue, and its shares rose 2 percent yesterday. Some worry that, without breaking up these kinds of companies, it’s hard to get them to really change their behavior.Trump wants to keep Chinese tariffs for nowEven as his officials prepare for more negotiations with Beijing, President Trump said yesterday that he expects tariffs on Chinese imports to remain “for a substantial period of time,” Bob Davis and Rebecca Ballhaus of the WSJ report.• “ ‘We have to make sure that if we do the deal with China that China lives by the deal,’ Mr. Trump told reporters as he left Washington for Ohio.”• “The president didn’t explain whether the U.S. is pressing to keep in place tariffs on all the $250 billion of Chinese goods the U.S. has hit with levies, or some portion of them, nor did he indicate for how long.”• U.S. negotiators “are more willing to roll back at least some of the 10 percent tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods, which took effect in September as the U.S. tried to put more pressure on China.”• But they’re more resistant to removing 25 percent levies on $50 billion of Chinese goods, imposed in response to “harm to U.S. companies caused by China’s forced technology transfers.”• “As part of any enforcement plan, the U.S. is also asking China for another important concession — that it agree not to retaliate against U.S. tariffs reimposed for at least some violations of a trade pact.”Britain’s high-risk play for a Brexit delayWith just eight days to go until Britain is scheduled to withdraw from the E.U., a standoff appears to have put the possibility of a chaotic no-deal Brexit back on the table.• Ms. May requested from the E.U. a short delay to Britain’s exit, until June 30.• But the E.U. said it would only allow that if lawmakers endorsed her Brexit plan.• That seems unlikely, given that lawmakers have twice rejected it already.“European Union officials appeared to be trying to strengthen Mrs. May’s position and pressure British lawmakers to fall into line behind her plan, which would allow Britain to exit the bloc but maintain its trade ties until at least the end of 2020,” Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.“If they don’t, the alternative may be an outcome many of the lawmakers like even less than the prime minister’s plan: a break from the bloc with no provisions for cushioning its economic impact — a so-called no-deal Brexit — or an even lengthier delay. And that could potentially mean no withdrawal from the bloc at all.”More: The government has stepped up its planning for a no-deal Brexit — including readying the armed forces to deal with public disruption. And sovereign wealth funds have cut investment in Britain ahead of Brexit.One man is holding up the Pentagon’s cloud contractThe Pentagon still hasn’t awarded its $10 billion cloud computing contract, which is supposed to go to a single provider. Amazon, Microsoft, Google, IBM and Oracle are all technically still in the running. The delay stems from a legal fight between Amazon, the favorite, and Oracle, concerning a former entrepreneur called Deap Ubhi, Karen Weise and Thomas Kaplan of the NYT write.• Mr. Ubhi worked at Amazon from 2014 to 2016, and then joined a Pentagon initiative to help the military hire techies. He also worked on the cloud contract, known as JEDI. He has since returned to Amazon.• “In court documents, Oracle argues that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI when the Pentagon decided to take the approach of hiring a single cloud provider. Oracle cites internal documents in which Mr. Ubhi expressed support for a single cloud,” Ms. Weise and Mr. Kaplan write.• “Amazon has countered that the Pentagon identified 72 people substantially involved in developing the contract and its requirements, and that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI for only seven weeks, in the early stages.”• “The delays from the Oracle lawsuit could help Microsoft. In the months since the request for proposals went out, the company, which has supplied the Pentagon for decades, has improved its capabilities to the point that some experts believe it is an increasingly credible competitor to Amazon.”London’s insurance hub is criticized as a “meat market” for womenLloyd’s of London, the British insurance brokerage, is one of the oldest redoubts of capitalism in the world. But 18 women told Bloomberg Businessweek that they faced sexual assault and harassment there.• A ban on women on the Lloyd’s trading floor was lifted in 1973, but a macho, sexist culture remains. Women are still referred to as “totty” and are rated for their “shaggability,” according to financial executives.• One female executive in her mid-30s told Bloomberg Businessweek that she was assaulted by a male manager after a night drinking with colleagues. She said she was marginalized, especially after filing a complaint — while her manager remained in his job.• Inga Beale, the first female C.E.O. of Lloyd’s, tried to increase diversity at the firm — but was told to “tone it down.”• She tried to ban daytime drinking, a staple of the Lloyd’s culture, in 2017. Some workers “sneered that Beale was trying to run their life as if she was their mother.” The ban reportedly remains widely ignored.• Ms. Beale left before her fifth anniversary in the role last fall, and was replaced by John Neal — whose former employer had docked his pay “for not disclosing he was in a relationship with his personal assistant.”Revolving doorJeremy King is stepping down as Walmart’s chief technology officer.JPMorgan Chase is phasing out college recruiting trips in favor of video interviews and online behavioral-science games.The speed readDeals• Levi Strauss priced its I.P.O. at $17 a share, valuing it at about $6.6 billion. (WSJ)• Indonesia’s Lion Air is reportedly working on an I.P.O. (Reuters)• UBS said its investment banking business has had one of its worst starts to the year in recent history. (FT)• Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management is up 30 percent so far this year, rebounding from years of underperformance. (CNBC)• Starbucks has set up a venture fund with Valor Equity Partners to invest in food start-ups. (CNBC)Politics and policy• To assess Howard Schultz’s leadership, should you look at Starbucks — or his botched sale of the Seattle SuperSonics? (NYT)• President Trump said that Robert Mueller’s report should be made public. Here’s what we know about it so far. (NYT)• Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, sued a Twitter account that pretends to be one of his cows. It now has more followers than he does. (NYT)Boeing• A Senate commerce subcommittee will examine oversight of the Boeing 737 Max in the wake of two crashes. (Axios)• And the F.B.I. has joined the Department of Transportation’s criminal investigation into how the jet was certified. ()• The Defense Department’s inspector general is investigating complaints that the acting defense secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan, promoted his former employer, Boeing, and disparaged rival military contractors. (NYT)Tech• A subscription news service from Apple, expected to be announced Monday, is said to include the WSJ, but not the NYT or WaPo. (NYT)• And David Solomon of Goldman Sachs is reportedly planning to attend Apple’s event, suggesting that his bank will unveil a long-rumored personal-finance collaboration with the tech giant. (Bloomberg)• The Supreme Court took a pass on how class-action lawsuit settlements are distributed in a case involving Google, suggesting it may not be ready to help Congress go after Big Tech. (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Beto O’Rourke joined the Democratic voices calling to rein in Big Tech, saying that the companies should be treated “a little bit more like a utility.” (Business Insider)Best of the rest• New Zealand will ban the sale of military-style semiautomatic weapons, the kind used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week. (NYT)• Carlos Ghosn’s trial in Japan could start in the fall, sooner than previously expected. (WSJ)• Greece is enjoying an economic revival, thanks to Chinese and Russian investors. (NYT)• Jeff Ubben of ValueAct Capital Management criticized PG&E for again postponing a deadline for board nominations. (Bloomberg)• Business schools are starting to teach softer skills, too. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.As tattooed rockers, tech bros and Instagram influencers pile into the tweedy world of watch collecting, prices for sought-after classics from brands like Rolex, Omega and Patek Philippe are shooting up. In some cases, they have doubled in just a couple of years.These next-generation collectors see old timepieces not just as a subtly stylish way to dress up a T-shirt and jeans, but also as a hot new asset in their investment portfolios. In a market where stocks, bonds and real estate seem at an unsteady peak, do vintage watches present a Bitcoin-in-2017-like growth opportunity? Or are they in a Bitcoin-in-2017-like bubble? Time — elegantly monitored — will tell. Even though his investment in watches has doubled in value in just 18 months, Peter Goodwin, a private investor in Charlottesville, Va., who also collects watches, said he is concerned about frothiness in the vintage market.“It’s much like momentum investing in stocks,” he said. “People see the rise in Facebook shares, they see Mark Zuckerberg, and they want to ride it up. It is the same with the trendy watches we read about in the auctions — the Paul Newman Rolex, the Omega Speedmasters, some Submariners. You see them rising and you want to jump on.”“The question,” Mr. Goodwin said, “is when does it stop?”That’s a risk that newcomer watch geeks like Shahien Hendizadeh, a recent business school graduate in Los Angeles, are willing to take.“Buying a good vintage Rolex is just like purchasing stock in a company like Nestlé or Google,” Mr. Hendizadeh, 25, said. “It is the quintessential blue chip.”After taking a face-plant on a long-shot $2,000 investment in American Apparel stock, just months before the company declared bankruptcy, he bought a 1982 Rolex Submariner for $13,000. It has appreciated perhaps $10,000 in two years, he said.And in the event of an economic downturn, fine watches may turn out to represent a safe-haven asset, like metals or gems, for investors looking to diversify their portfolios. Or they may just be another of-the-moment asset that 1 percenters, flush with cash, have inflated to unsustainable proportions. ⊕Watch collectors hide in plain sight. John Mayer’s watch collection is nearly as famous as his guitar work. His bank vault contains a vast array of collectibles, including sapphire-encrusted gold Rolexes and Luftwaffe watches from World War II, that he has said is valued in the “tens of millions.”Silicon Valley heavyweights like Kevin Rose, the Digg founder, and Matt Jacobson, Facebook’s employee No. 8, have museum-worthy Rolexes and Patek Philippes, helping to establish a head-turning timepiece as a tech-world style flourish to rival the hoodie.Ellen DeGeneres wore a holy-grail Paul Newman-model Rolex Daytona from the 1960s, now worth perhaps $250,000, while bantering with Jerry Seinfeld in an episode of “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” last year. (Adam Levine and Ed Sheeran have been spotted wearing Paul Newmans as well. One also made a cameo on the wrist of Pierre Png’s character in “Crazy Rich Asians.”)In professional sports, high-end timepieces have long seemed as indispensable as a shoe contract for stars with seven- and eight-figure incomes. Top athletes including Rafael Nadal, Dwyane Wade and LeBron James have served as celebrity ambassadors for brands like Richard Mille, Hublot and Audemars Piguet. Star players who have been traded have been known to trade a Rolex to a player on their new team to secure their old jersey number. And in recent years, several have morphed into certifiable watch snobs. Howie Kendrick of the Washington Nationals, for example, counts understated heirlooms, like a 1959 LeCoultre Deep Sea Alarm and a 1960s Breitling Superocean, as key elements of his off-field uniform.If you’re still 1 percent-ish but would prefer to dabble, there’s good news. The Watch Fund, run by Dominic Khoo, a shareholder and watch specialist with the auction company Antiquorum, offers people a chance to invest in rare and limited-edition watches at prices that can be 50 percent or more below retail. Those who have bought in have seen at least double-digit returns since the fund’s inception six years ago, Mr. Khoo said.Star power and funds like Mr. Khoo’s add credence to the idea that fine watches are a soybean or a copper, another investable commodity. But does that make them a good investment?⊛What even makes a watch valuable? Consider the bezel insert from a 1957 Rolex Submariner. A bezel insert is the featherweight aluminum disk with numbers on it that surrounds the dial of a diver’s watch.On Submariners made in the third quarter of 1957, the bezel insert was made with an unusual red triangle at 12 o’clock and slightly different typography on the numerals. Because it is rare, that insert is so sought after by collectors that it can fetch more than $30,000 these days, said Eric Wind, a dealer of fine vintage watches in Florida, up from maybe $10,000 just a few years ago.None of this necessarily makes sense. It’s not like a vintage watch is better than a new one. In fact, it’s worse in almost every way.A new Rolex Submariner, for example, is a modern update of a decades-old classic that seems to be every budding watch geek’s first serious timepiece. The new Sub is a marvel of mechanical engineering, with a high-tech ceramic bezel that is virtually guaranteed not to fade, a solid-steel bracelet as rugged as a tank tread, and a crystal made of sapphire that is all but scratch-proof. It’s a watch that feels indestructible enough for a pleasure dive in the Mariana Trench.No one would ever say that about its predecessor, those midcentury Submariners made famous by Sean Connery’s James Bond, which are shooting up in value despite the fact that they feature an acrylic (that is, plastic) crystal prone to scratches and cracks, a hollow-steel bracelet that eventually might stretch like an accordion, and a painted dial that could fade from the original black to an espresso brown (known to collectors as a “tropical” dial).Which is, naturally, why old watches are considered cool: They have patina, provenance, soul. And for a generation of men (and yes, vintage watches seem to be an obsession largely for men, with apologies to Ellen) who value the analog-chic of antique mechanical watches, just like vinyl records and selvage jeans, that is key.“Vintage watches should show off their age,” said Nelson Murray, a 31-year-old photographer and budding collector in San Francisco. Vintage sport watches, like his Rolex GMT-Master, a classic pilot’s watch from 1980, “evoke a sense of adventure and a kind of dare to add more dings and scratches to them as evidence of a life lived.”⊚Prices for some Rolex GMT-Master models — in the proper condition, with original parts — have spiked to perhaps $16,000, up from $8,000 just two or three years ago, said Paul Altieri of Bob’s Watches, a prominent retailer in Newport Beach, Calif. (It routinely shows off sumptuous wrist shots of old classics for its Instagram followers.)A few years ago, Matt Hranek, a watch-loving photographer who recently founded a men’s style magazine called Wm Brown, flipped a 1960s Omega Speedmaster (the same model worn by the astronaut Ed White on the first American spacewalk) for five times what he paid for it, he said. That score helped him persuade his wife that a portfolio of vintage watches could serve as an alternate 401(k) for the family.“I convinced her — I think — that it was much more practical to invest regularly in watches that I know about rather than the stock market that I know absolutely nothing about,” Mr. Hranek, 51, said.Benjamin Clymer, the founder of the watch site Hodinkee, which has evolved from a one-man watch blog to a market-moving editorial and e-commerce site selling new and vintage watches, has been practicing a form of horological arbitrage with his collection for years.In 2012, for example, he bought a Patek Philippe Nautilus, a triumph of 1970s mod design that conjures images of Concorde flights and fondue parties, for $18,000. That watch is worth at least $75,000 today, Mr. Clymer, 36, said. That’s not his only home run as a watch investor.“I have a distinct memory of a friend who is now one of the great vintage dealers in the world calling me crazy for spending $30,000 for an early 1950s Omega Speedmaster,” he said. “The same watch today would be well north of $100,000.”⊝With wrist shots flourishing on Instagram and watch sites like Hodinkee, Worn & Wound and Monochrome spreading arcane watch knowledge to the masses, collector demand is spreading beyond behemoth brands like Rolex and Omega to lesser-known makers like Universal Genève. One particularly coveted version of that venerable Swiss maker’s Compax chronograph famously graced the wrist of Nina Rindt, the fashionable wife of the 1970s Formula One racer Jochen Rindt. It began trading as high as $45,000 recently, up from maybe $2,800 in 2011, although the market has cooled of late, Mr. Wind said; the same model might trade for $20,000 to $30,000, he added. But no watch has exploded in value like the Paul Newman Daytona. It is an auto racer’s chronograph that once was considered something of an afterthought in the watch world. Joanne Woodward accidentally made it iconic when she bought one for Mr. Newman, her gear-head husband, in the late 1960s for about $250.Whether she noticed it or not, the specific model she selected for Mr. Newman, who could often be found circling the track when he was not making movies, was rare, featuring distinctive Art Deco-inflected numerals on its three sub-dials denoting seconds, minutes and hours. This only appeared on perhaps one in 20 Daytonas from the late 1960s and early 1970s.Over the years, Mr. Newman’s stature as a style icon grew, and so did the mythology — and value — of the Rolex he flashed on magazine covers. In a 2014 post, Hodinkee scoured old auction catalogs featuring Paul Newman sales and found estimates as low as $9,257 in 1992, and as low (yes) as $66,000 in 2008.Those were the days. After Paul Newman’s own Paul Newman attracted worldwide headlines by selling at auction for $17.8 million after a mere 12 minutes of bidding in 2017, every Paul Newman suddenly seems to be trading like a Picasso. A coveted version known as an Oyster Mk 1 “panda” went for more than $750,000 at a Phillips auction in Geneva this past spring, a figure that shocked Mr. Clymer, who once owned that very watch. “The Oysters are something really special, and go well beyond ticking the box for a rich guy to prove he’s cool,” Mr. Clymer said. “I bought this watch in the twos, sold it in the threes, and I thought I was the smartest man in the room. How could a steel Daytona break $400,000?”⊜Not every old watch has value. Anyone who scoops up a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s at a flea market is likely to end up with a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s. Vintage watch collecting can prove a minefield for newbie collectors. Even with blue-chip models, seemingly imperceptible differences can add or detract thousands of dollars in value. A Rolex Submariner from the 1960s with an original bezel insert featuring a so-called long 5 is worth thousands more than one with a replacement insert with a shorter, more contemporary 5. Buyers need to figure out if a watch has been polished over the years — actually considered a bad thing, since polishing can wear down the crisp edges of its case, Mr. Wind said. And they need to watch out for unscrupulous dealers peddling so-called Frankenwatches, which contain non-original parts that can torpedo the value. Besides, watch collecting can be similar to art collecting in that dealers tend to reserve the most coveted pieces for insiders and heavyweight collectors, rarely making them available to the general public. And then there are the fickle market tastes that any sort of collector must try to anticipate. Right now, the arrow is pointing up on best-of-breed sport watches with steel bracelets, like the Nautilus, the Submariner and GMT, the early Speedmasters, the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak and certain vintage Tudors and Heuers, Mr. Clymer said. There’s no telling how the demand for five- and six-figure timepieces will hold up should, say, a credit implosion in China, or a splintering of the eurozone, produce a sequel to the 2008 financial crisis, or should Democratic Socialists sweep to power in Washington on promises of a 70 percent tax rate on the target demographic for museum-worthy watches. Already, some sure things, like certain Daytonas, are looking like slightly less than a sure thing. “The market for Daytona just got a little silly for awhile,” Mr. Clymer said. “We saw references worth $20,000, $25,000 in 2011 to 2015 all of a sudden worth $50,000, then all of a sudden worth $80,000. And now those same references are worth $65,000. That’s still significantly higher than they were, but they’ve come down from the stratosphere.”During the bear market of 2008 to 2009, too, prices for some high-flying vintage models, including Paul Newmans, dipped by 30 to 40 percent, said Matthew Bain, a dealer of fine watches in Miami Beach. But, like stocks, they bounced back to new highs. The rebound may seem intoxicating. But people who think of their watch collection as an alternative to an E-Trade account may be in for a rude surprise when they discover that watches often come with sizable dealer fees, not to mention substantial outlays for insurance, secure storage and other hidden costs, Mr. Khoo said. “Investors are not collectors, and collectors are not investors,” Mr. Khoo said. His Watch Fund has a database of “more than 9,000 watch collectors worldwide,” he said, and “I have never met someone who bought hundreds of watches that he liked, and sold 100 percent of them for a net absolute gain.”In other words, newcomers to the watch world may want to heed the warning attached to brokerage advertisements on television: Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Or, they may just want to buy whatever looks cool and leave it at that. Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A best-selling Boeing airplane is groundedThe future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Trump’s next budget fightUndeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]Would a trade deal with China have too much compromise?In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”A big week for BrexitTomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.Jay Powell says Trump can’t fire himThe Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.The bull market is 10. Why so sad?We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”Twitter is struggling to change how we tweetA year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.” I.M.F. chief calls for a global tax shake-upIn an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Revolving doorSam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.The speed readDealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SINGAPORE — Has the failure of Eleven James, the American pioneer in renting luxury timepieces that suddenly closed last summer, dampened investors’ or users’ enthusiasm for luxury timepiece rentals?On the contrary.The sharing economy so beloved of millennials — who seem to prefer renting everything from bridal gowns to transportation — is continuing to spread among watch fans in France, the United States, Singapore and beyond. And, operating almost entirely through the internet, there is little sign of it abating.For example, Sidne Yeo, a 28-year-old consultant based in Singapore who advises Australian companies that want to penetrate Chinese e-commerce, already had a collection of five watches. But in 2018 he decided to join Acquired Time, an online club based in the city-state that had been introduced in March the previous year.Mr. Yeo said he wanted to try watches that he probably would buy at some point — like the so-called “Rolex Hulk,” a Rolex Submariner with a green bezel.“I thought it was a great idea,” he said. “I decided to give it a shot.”Roy Tong, Acquired Time’s co-founder, had used his company’s money to amass a collection of about 40 watches now grown to 80, mostly for men, with what he estimated as a total retail value of about 1 million Singaporean dollars ($740,465). He said he wanted to create an online business that would allow members to “test drive” watches before purchase.“At the beginning, I thought that my clients would be fresh graduates in their 20s and 30s who were purchasing their first watch,” Mr. Tong said, “but we soon discovered that the bulk of our clients is made of senior professionals who already have a watch, and often more than one.”For these customers, he said, Acquired Time is like an “extension of their watch collection.”The club requires a six-month membership and has three fee levels that correspond with the type of watch that may be rented: Subscribers who pay 175 Singapore dollars a month have access to watches like a classic IWC Pilot Mark XVIII Heritage (which has a retail price in the United States of $4,350). The 275-dollar subscription includes watches like a Rolex Submariner (which retails for approximately $7,500), and the 375-dollar subscription, watches like an Audemars Piguet Safari (approximately $26,000).Prospective new members generally reach Mr. Tong through the company website or a WhatsApp message; they are vetted, which can take about three days, and, if successful, a company concierge then delivers the member’s watch to his or her home. About 100 people already are Acquired Time members, and Mr. Tong is planning to expand the business into Hong Kong this month.And in recent months two similar businesses have begun operating in Singapore: TenTwo Club, established by Dan Kruimel, Ronald Chew and Dan Mills, and Specter One, founded by Sendi Heng.At the startEleven James began as a watch rental business, founded in 2013 in New York by Randy Brandoff. He had been the chief marketing officer of NetJets, the Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary that sold part ownership or shares of private business jets; he took the role of chief executive in his new online business.But the model had changed to memberships by the time the club was reintroduced in 2017, and Olivier Reza, artistic director of the Paris-based jewelry house that bears his family name, had become chief executive. He had been an early investor in Eleven James.“We are focusing on what really matters, which is the experience of beautiful things,” Mr. Reza said in an interview with The New York Times. He talked about the company’s pending expansion into jewelry and contemporary art, saying that renting luxury goods was the wave of the future.Then, last August, the watch blog Hodinkee reported that the company had failed to find investment, lost its credit line and was shutting down. Several employees, the story said, refused to comment. The failure, however, seems to have been the business — not the idea.Sharing businesses from Rent the Runway to Zipcar have been growing. For example, the “End of Ownership” chapter in “The State of Fashion 2019” report by the Business of Fashion and McKinsey & Company outlined, “the shift to new ownership models is driven by growing consumer desire for variety, sustainability and affordability and sources suggest that the resale market, for instance, could be bigger than fast fashion within 10 years.”A survey of more than 275 fashion industry executives, used to help develop the report contents, found that 41 percent of the respondents felt the rental market would be more relevant to consumers this year than it was in 2018.And Alexander Thiel, a partner at McKinsey in Zurich, said that millennials, in particular, want their purchases to suit their lifestyles and “luxury is becoming more experience focused,” suggesting that the idea of being able to wear numerous luxury watches for a fraction of their cost is appealing.The business modelYet even as online watch clubs are expanding, they aren’t all using the same business model.Mr. Tong, for example, bought his club’s stock of watches from private collectors in Asia. He knows that some other clubs use watches offered on consignment by their owners — a method that Eleven James used that is also employed by Singaporean Specter One — but he said he doubts Asian collectors would be interested in risking their timepieces to “earn a few hundred dollars a month.”Yet consignments have been the cornerstone of Luxothèque, a rental company founded four months ago in Paris by Thomas Blavet, a former manager at Cartier and Chaumet, and which already has served about 25 customers. Its online site displays more than 100 watches, men’s and women’s models by Rolex, Cartier, Jaeger-LeCoultre and even a French diving watch specialist, Ralf Tech.“The stock comes from professional and private owners who entrust us with their pieces, and we pay them after each renting, like Airbnb in a way,” Mr. Blavet said, adding that he plans to add an owners’ section to the website so they can monitor rentals and income independently.Consignments are also being considered as a way to expand Watch It, an online club based in Paris that Vincent Robert and Pierric Soustre founded in 2016.Mr. Robert had bought himself a Rolex for his 25th birthday and said he realized the next day that he was already bored with it. He wanted a classic leather watch for a dinner reception and a Hublot to wear to a sporting event.A quick search for “rent a watch” gave him zero results, so he called Mr. Soustre and said, as he recalled, “I need to talk to you about a new business idea.” Two days later their company was born.Mr. Robert said most of the club’s current stock of about 20 watches were acquired through loans from a bank and one of Mr. Soustre’s relatives. But they want to expand into consignments, although, Mr. Robert added, the security of such watches would be a concern.Vyrent, however, found that the scores of watches sitting idle in wholesalers’ stockrooms and retailers’ drawers were the way to supplement its offerings. The New York-based online club has made arrangements with scores of such businesses so that, when any of its approximately 1,000 members selects one of their watches, the retailer or wholesaler is paid a portion of the person’s membership fee. “This way we can guarantee our customers access to thousands of watches,” said Michael Oshinaya, the company’s executive director of corporate strategy. And, this stream has the advantage of not burdening the balance sheet.Vyrent offers three-, six- and 12-month subscriptions, with rates matching watch categories. Members, then, can exchange watches as many times as they wish, wearing a stainless steel Audemars Piguet Royal Oak one week and a full diamond yellow gold presidential Rolex Day-Date II the next. There also is a “rent to buy” service that offers the opportunity to rent a watch before committing to a purchase.Even watch companies are getting into rentals. As the Swiss maker DuBois et Fils — which offers 20 of its models to shareholders and even a rebate for posting travel photos — asks on its site: “Why buy when you can rent?”The Business Roundtable, the top lobbying organization for industry in Washington, is often characterized as a nonpartisan or bipartisan organization.It represents more than 200 large companies — from oil giants to tech sweethearts — with more than $7 trillion of revenue and more than 15 million workers of all political stripes. But nobody is truly apolitical, and in an age when we increasingly see our business leaders filling the vacuum left by our political leaders, it’s important that the public fully understand the views of these unelected leaders.So a team of researchers working with the Harvard Law School program on corporate governance set out to find the political inclinations of top executives — not just the 200 who make up the Business Roundtable, but all the executives of the S&P 1500, a stock index that covers 90 percent of the United States’ market capitalization.Rather than look at party affiliation or public statements, the researchers — Alma Cohen, Moshe Hazan, Roberto Tallarita and David Weiss — looked at the truest measure of political leanings: They followed the money.For the study, to be released Tuesday, they tracked personal political contributions for more than 3,500 chief executives that occupied the corner office anytime from 2000 to 2017. The period covers a two-term Republican presidency, a two-term Democratic presidency and the start of President Trump’s time in office — after he lost the popular vote but won the Electoral College. In other words, on the whole, voters have been pretty evenly divided between the parties in that time.But just 18.4 percent of the executives studied were designated as Democrats. The clear majority — 57.7 percent — demonstrated their affiliation through donations to the Republican Party. Indeed, 75 percent of donations from the median chief executive were directed to Republicans.To be counted a supporter of Republicans or Democrats, executives had to direct at least two-thirds of their donations to candidates affiliated with one party. More than a quarter of the executives studied gave enough to both parties to be classified as “neutral.” This was the landing spot of Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple. Despite his public support for Hillary Clinton in the last election and his backing of a number of progressive causes, he frequently gave money to candidates on both sides of the aisle.(Unfortunately, the researchers have not disclosed how they classified each executive, saying they wanted to focus on the whole, and not the parts. When I asked for an example, they provided me with Mr. Cook.)It is to be expected that leaders of large businesses side with Republicans, given the party’s platform of lower taxes and less regulation. But the overwhelming nature of the support for the G.O.P. is surprising, given the outspoken positions a number of executives have taken in recent years on social issues like climate change, guns and immigration policies.The results of this political science experiment has significant implications given how involved the business community has become in creating and influencing laws and public policy. “Especially since the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United, which allowed corporations to make unlimited independent political expenditures, corporate political spending can substantially affect politics and policymaking,” the authors of the report wrote.The researchers dived deeper into some of the numbers to pull apart political leanings by specific industry, company size, region and even the gender of the executive. Republican chief executives clearly outnumbered Democrats in every industry, but the gap narrowed in the “business equipment” and “telecommunications” sectors, which included technology and internet companies. (Nearly half  of business equipment chief executives backed Republicans vs. 30.1 percent for Democrats, and 36.9 percent of telecom chiefs supported Republicans vs. 22.6 percent for Democrats).Gender differences may be the most surprising. The sample size of women from 2000 to 2017 represented only 2.8 percent of the chief executives (only 1.2 percent in 2000, and 4.4 percent by 2017), but the researchers found that women were nearly evenly split between giving to Republicans, giving to Democrats and giving to both.Our political discourse is as divided today as it has been any time since the Civil War. Debates are raging about income inequality, business regulations and capitalism itself — particularly among Democrats but increasingly among some Republicans.The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today. Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.These executives wield enormous influence over not just policy, but the inclinations of their own employees. One of the most fascinating revelations of the study was that it also looked at the conduct of the businesses themselves, and in the process discovered that disclosures of political donations were highly correlated with the political leaning of its chief executive. Political contributions by public companies do not have to be disclosed to shareholders, although some of companies do it. So the researchers looked instead at the which companies disclosed the donations to shareholders. Using an index developed by the Center for Political Accountability, the professors found that there was “a statistically significant association between having a Republican C.E.O. and a lower” disclosure score.Again, maybe that should be expected. Republicans typically argue against regulations, so the idea of voluntary disclosure might seem anathema to them. But for shareholders of all political leanings who rely on transparency and disclosure, the politics of a chief executive might be a more important factor than expected. Interestingly, “having a female C.E.O. is associated with increased transparency” about political contributions, the researchers found.The researchers opted not to conveniently classify executives for us, and perhaps that’s for the best. Political views do change over time, and depending on the candidates involved. Mr. Cook, for example, backed Mrs. Clinton and several state Democratic committees before the 2016 election. He also donated to the Republican House speaker, Paul Ryan. It’s up to you whether that affects how you vote with your dollars, of course. But now, more than ever, it’s worth knowing where the powerful figures in the business world are placing their bets. Good Tuesday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Elon Musk fights back against the S.E.C.The Tesla C.E.O. responded to the accusation that he violated a fraud settlement with the S.E.C. by declaring that the regulator was trying to muzzle him.The S.E.C. asked for Mr. Musk to be held in contempt of court over a tweet about Tesla production volumes, which it says infringed a settlement that put limitations on his social-media use. Tesla conceded that lawyers didn’t review the tweet before it was sent.That response “smacks of retaliation and censorship,” Tesla’s lawyers argue. They say the regulator is asking a court “to trample on” Mr. Musk’s First Amendment rights, perhaps because it’s embarrassed by criticism. And they contend that Mr. Musk has cut his Tesla-related tweeting by nearly half.They also say the tweet was innocuous, “simply Musk’s shorthand gloss on and entirely consistent with prior public disclosures detailing Tesla’s anticipated production volume.”What happens next? Read our guide.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Trump’s budget breezily ignores the deficitThe White House sent its budget proposal for the 2020 fiscal year to Congress yesterday, requesting $4.75 trillion. Here’s a look at President Trump’s priorities:No deficit reduction — for a long time. Mr. Trump’s budget projects trillion-dollar deficits for the next four years, and no balanced budget for 15. And that’s on an expectation of consistently strong economic growth, with no recession in the next decade. (Independent economists think that’s unlikely.)Steep cuts to environmental projects. The White House proposed cutting the E.P.A.’s budget by 31 percent and the Interior Department’s by 14 percent, as well as reducing funding for renewable energy research by 70 percent.And similar treatment for Medicare. There, Mr. Trump’s proposal envisions up to $845 billion in cuts, to a service he promised not to touch during the 2016 campaign. It comes as many Democratic presidential contenders are pushing Medicare for all.But big boosts to the military and infrastructure. The Pentagon would receive a 5 percent increase in funds — more than it had requested. The White House wants $200 billion for infrastructure spending, too.Democrats immediately dismissed the proposal. “This is a budget that we will not take seriously,” Representative Jim Yarmuth, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, said. But Democrats will now be forced to reveal their own budget priorities.Boeing is in crisisShares in the company fell 5 percent yesterday as governments pressed it for answers over the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash — the second time a new 737 Max 8 jet has crashed within five months.Governments and airlines are grounding jets. Australia, China and Indonesia stopped use of the Max 8; Singapore banned all flights involving the broader family of Max jets. In total, at least 20 airlines have grounded their Max 8s — but not Southwest Airlines or American Airlines. About 40 percent of the world’s 737 Max fleet is grounded, the WSJ estimates.Airline workers are worried too. The Association of Flight Attendants called on the F.A.A. to review the 737 Max. And a former safety official for America’s biggest pilots’ union told the NYT that his colleagues in the industry were “very concerned.”The F.A.A. hasn’t yet grounded the 737 Max, despite calls from two U.S. senators to do so. But the agency did demand that Boeing  update flight control software by April, along with manuals and pilot training requirements.The damage to Boeing may be huge. Analysts estimate that the 737 Max lineup represents about two-thirds of its future deliveries and 40 percent of its profits, according to the WSJ. “Boeing has lost control of the timetable to provide the safe, reliable solution,” Neil Hansford of the consulting firm Strategic Aviation Solutions told Bloomberg. “The longer it goes, the more chance Boeing has of losing orders.” What Google paid executives accused of misconductA lawsuit accusing Alphabet’s board of responding to misconduct cases by paying off executives, rather than firing them, has confirmed the size of those payouts, Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT writes.• Alphabet’s board agreed to pay Amit Singhal, who ran Google’s search operations, as much as $45 million when he resigned from the company in 2016 after being accused of groping a subordinate, according to board discussions that form part of the lawsuit.• Board meeting minutes cited in the lawsuit also confirm the NYT’s previous reporting of a $90 million exit package for Andy Rubin, who once led its Android division, after he was accused of sexual misconduct.The case also shows the power exerted by Larry Page, the Google co-founder who is now Alphabet’s C.E.O., Mr. Wakabayashi writes, describing it as “a window into the workings of Alphabet’s board”:• Mr. Rubin was offered a pay package of $650,000 (and a potential bonus of more than double that) in April 2014 while he was an adviser to Google and no longer running the Android business.• He declined the offer until he had spoken to Mr. Page. In August 2014, Mr. Page awarded a $150 million stock grant to Mr. Rubin.• After the $150 million grant was awarded, a Google official emailed the board committee asking for approval of Mr. Rubin’s $90 million compensation. It was approved.Brexit tweaks head to a voteLess than 24 hours before a potentially decisive vote by lawmakers, Prime Minister Theresa May secured legal assurances from the E.U. in a bid to save her unpopular Brexit deal, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.“After a telephone call with Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, Mrs. May flew to meet him in Strasbourg, where the European Parliament is holding a plenary session,” Mr. Castle writes.The new provisions clarify the temporary nature of terms relating to the Irish border. “This provision is designed to prevent a hard border being created between Ireland, which will remain in the E.U., and Northern Ireland, which is part of the U.K.,” Mr. Castle writes.Now comes the hard part. Parliament will vote on Mrs. May’s updated deal later today, but Mr. Castle said it remained “unclear that the concessions agreed by the E.U. negotiators would be enough to prevent another defeat.” (She lost the last one by 230 votes in a 650-seat Parliament.) Critics say that the E.U. hasn’t conceded much — and her own attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, appears to agree.If no agreement is reached by March 29, Britain will leave the E.U. without a deal. Mrs. May has promised British lawmakers that, should she lose today, they could vote on whether to leave without an agreement. If they decide against that, next would be a vote on whether to request an extension of negotiations.But Mr. Juncker warned, “It is this deal, or Brexit may not happen at all.”Who is Manhattan’s new office district really for?For decades, the business center of New York City has been in Midtown Manhattan. That could change, Joshua Chaffin of the FT reports, as the new Hudson Yards development opens on the Far West Side.• A key selling point of Hudson Yards: office buildings that include “floor-to-ceiling windows, whizzing elevators and towers without interior columns, which allows for uninterrupted floor plans.”• Jeff Blau, the C.E.O. of Related Companies, which developed the area, said that the real estate was meant to be attractive to millennials — and companies that want to hire them.• Among those moving in is the investment giant KKR, whose co-founder, Henry Kravis, described the buildings as having “what younger people want today.”• Others relocating to Hudson Yards — which has as much office real estate as central Pittsburgh — include BlackRock and the hedge fund Third Point.• But the FT notes that the tech companies who inspired Hudson Yards are largely absent.The web is 30. Now what?Yesterday, the world wide web entered its fourth decade. Its inventor, Tim Berners-Lee, has reflected on the criticism that now dogs the products and platforms using his creation. And he has some plans for how to clean up the network:• “Given how much the web has changed in the past 30 years, it would be defeatist and unimaginative to assume that the web as we know it can’t be changed for the better in the next 30.”• “Governments must translate laws and regulations for the digital age. They must ensure markets remain competitive, innovative, and open.”• “Companies must do more to ensure that their pursuit of short-term profit is not at the expense of human rights, democracy, scientific fact, or public safety. Platforms and products must be designed with privacy, diversity, and security in mind.”• “And most important of all, citizens must hold companies and governments accountable for the commitments they make, and demand that both respect the web as a global community with citizens at its heart.”• “The web is for everyone, and collectively we hold the power to change it.”Revolving doorKenneth Wagers was dismissed as XPO Logistics’ C.O.O. after less than a year.GM Cruise, the autonomous driving unit of G.M., hired Arden Hoffman, Dropbox’s head of H.R., as its chief people officer.The speed readDeals• Barrick Gold called off a $17.8 billion hostile takeover bid for Newmont Gold. The companies signed a joint venture instead. (Bloomberg)• German regulators say they’re worried that Deutsche Bank would fumble a merger with Commerzbank. (FT)• Waymo, Alphabet’s autonomous vehicle division, is reportedly seeking outside investment from companies like Volkswagen. (Information)• Levi Strauss hopes to raise up to $587 million in its I.P.O. (Reuters)• Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., Axel Springer of Germany and others are reportedly interested in buying the financial news publisher Acuris for more than £1 billion, or $1.3 billion. (FT)Politics and policy• New York’s attorney general subpoenaed Deutsche Bank for records tied to Trump Organization projects. (NYT)• Speaker Nancy Pelosi opposes impeaching Mr. Trump. (WaPo)• New York lawmakers support a “pied-à-terre” tax on luxury second homes to raise money for the subway. (NYT)• The cap on state and local taxes may leave some states facing a budget shortfall. (Bloomberg)Tech• Amazon will stop trying to bar third-party merchants from selling products for less on other platforms — a practice criticized as anticompetitive. (Axios)• Facebook removed (and then restored) ads about Elizabeth Warren’s proposal to break up Big Tech. Instagram’s co-founders said her plan wasn’t “nuanced.” (Bloomberg, Business Insider)• Sam Altman, the former president of Y Combinator, has a new idea: he’s turning his nonprofit A.I. company, OpenAI, into a “capped-profit” company with a limit on what investors make, regardless of success. (Recode)• The Trump administration told Germany that it would limit intelligence-sharing if the country didn’t ban Huawei from its 5G wireless data networks. (WSJ)• Apple will hold an event on March 25. It’s expected to announce video and news services. (Verge)Best of the rest• Turkey has entered a recession. (NYT)• Officials at the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, a banking regulator, are reportedly considering whether to oust executives or directors at Wells Fargo. (WSJ)• BP has promoted green energy. But it has also lobbied to weaken U.S. methane regulations. (FT)• Britain is setting up a new audit and accounting regulator in the wake of recent scandals. (WSJ)• Renault and Nissan say they’re developing a new arrangement to maintain collaboration now that Carlos Ghosn is out of the picture. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.THIN BLUE LIE The Failure of High-Tech Policing By Matt StroudOver the past two decades, technology has taken over policing. Officers wear body cameras to record their encounters and carry newfangled weapons like tasers that seem to come straight out of “Star Trek.” The police patrol criminal “hot spots” identified by big data. Suspects are tracked with GPS, cell-site simulators and video surveillance enhanced with facial recognition software. Has all this costly technology made us safer?Not likely, according to “Thin Blue Lie: The Failure of High-Tech Policing,” Matt Stroud’s incisive, muckraking exposé of the “police industrial complex” — the web of law enforcement agencies, for-profit corporations and politicians who increasingly exalt technology as the way to reform American policing. Although innovative tools can help solve crimes, police departments often embrace new technologies without adequate testing or input from affected communities. The result is that “fixes” can aggravate the very problems they were designed to remedy.Stroud, an investigative journalist with an eye for detail, begins the book with a bang — or rather a zap. Volunteering to be tasered, he describes an extraordinary pain that lasted only five seconds, he writes, “but felt like an eternity.” Felled by the weapon, Stroud’s own experience is a metaphor for the troubling tale of how tasers became standard equipment for cops. Developed originally as a nonlethal alternative to the gun, tasers were relentlessly marketed to police departments by Taser International, a hungry start-up that stirred demand through celebrity cop endorsements and dramatic demonstrations of burly volunteers being dropped. Company trainers touted the tasers as safe, encouraging officers to use them early and often to prevent bad situations from escalating. Major police departments bought in and Taser International became a Wall Street darling.ImageThen the bodies began to mount. Tasers did not lead to a decline in gun use, as marketed; they became instead a new tool for police abuse, employed against nonthreatening people for failure to follow officers’ commands. And some taser victims did die — deaths for which Taser International publicly denied responsibility, citing autopsy reports that, according to Stroud, did not support the company’s claims. Indeed, Stroud insists the company never even rigorously tested the safety of tasers. According to Stroud, Taser International’s executives, in an effort to keep sales and stock prices high, cut corners, misled the public and the police and in the process made millions. Meanwhile, taxpayers, who foot the bill for police misconduct, have paid out more than $172 million in taser-related lawsuits.Yet taxpayers are also one of the main engines driving the adoption of high-tech policing. Polls show that the public broadly supports the use of innovations like body cameras, drones and predictive, algorithm-driven policing. Unlike most government agencies, which lack resources to embrace the cutting-edge, police departments have benefited from ballooning expenditures, especially since 9/11. Much of the money has gone to surveillance and big data. In New York, the Police Department spent millions to build a secure, hidden Global Terrorism Room, staffed by 125 officers who scour intelligence reports, access databases and use biometrics to identify threats.Whether combating terrorism or just ordinary crime, modern law enforcement adheres to what Stroud calls “technological solutionism,” the belief that technology is always the best answer. Even the more mundane policing tasks, like where officers are sent to patrol, are now dictated by computer programs that identify high-crime blocks. Yet technological outputs are only as good as the inputs; an algorithm that counts drug arrests is capturing not where drug crimes occur but who is being policed — predictably, vulnerable minorities and the poor. The college kids have little to worry about.Body cameras are the latest craze in policing. But in contrast to most recent innovations, which typically make it easier for the police to watch over us, body cameras may finally give us the ability to better watch over the police. Announcing a proposal to fund body cameras nationwide, then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch explained that the devices “hold tremendous promise for enhancing transparency” and for “promoting accountability.” The lesson of “Thin Blue Lie,” however, is that looking to technology to solve the problems of policing is usually a hollow hope.The latest generation of Silicon Valley start-ups is now sprinting to the public markets, raising hopes among large and small investors eager to invest in these high-profile, fast-growing firms. But the class of 2019 is far different from its predecessors. These companies, including gig economy darlings like Uber and Lyft, are generally older and larger, powered for years by billions of dollars of private money that has reshaped the start-up world.The additional maturity of the companies may curb wild swings — both big gains and big losses — for new investors. But it could also mean that the companies’ fastest phases of growth are behind them. As a result, there is an increased risk that in this wave of tech I.P.O.s, an elite group of investors, like sovereign wealth funds and venture capitalists, will grab a larger share of the winnings compared with new investors.“Individual investors are going to get in too late,” said Jason DeSena Trennert, managing partner at Strategas Research Partners, a markets and economic analysis firm. “They’re going to be the last investors in, and that’s the concern.”[Lyft’s shares soared on Friday when it began trading on public markets.]The change reflects a large-scale shift in the way that American entrepreneurs raise money to build their companies. Instead of quickly turning to the public markets and the scrutiny that comes with that, as Amazon and Google did, they are building huge businesses over the course of many years on the back of private money, and with fewer demands for financial disclosures.Uber, the giant ride-hailing company, has raised more than $20 billion over the last decade. Lyft, its smaller rival, which priced its I.P.O. late Thursday at $72 a share and is expected to start trading on the Nasdaq Friday, raised $4.9 billion over seven years.Many start-ups in earlier waves — back to the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, when Amazon was listed on the Nasdaq — went public just a few years after their founding. Some, like Pets.com, had tiny amounts of revenue, and now exist only in Silicon Valley lore. A combination of policy changes and vast new riches in the tech industry has been changing the equation for start-ups for more than a decade. Mutual funds and hedge funds — the typical investors in a start-up’s I.P.O. — began buying stakes in large private companies as a way to build up larger stakes before the new businesses went public. Other big investors joined in, including large sovereign wealth funds and the outsize SoftBank Vision Fund, creating an even hotter market. Venture capital investments into United States-based companies grew to $99.5 billion in 2018, the highest level since 2000, according to CB Insights, a company that tracks start-ups.Those investments have driven valuations of start-ups to unusual heights. There are now at least 333 so-called unicorns, companies valued at $1 billion or more, according to CB Insights. In 2014 there were around 80.Lyft has a private valuation of more than $11 billion. So does Pinterest, another company in the process of going public. That is roughly the market value that public investors put on the retailer Kohl’s and the online trading firm E-Trade Financial. Uber, the largest of the private companies expected to head for the stock market this year, has a private-market valuation of more than $70 billion. In public markets, that’s roughly the same size as corporate giants such as Goldman Sachs and CVS Health. Matt Murphy, a partner at Menlo Ventures, a leading venture capital firm, said the higher valuations and larger investments correlate with bigger opportunities created by smartphones and cloud computing. “The magnitude of the audiences that can be reached and the monetization per user has grown,” he said. “Their growth potential is much higher than was previously anticipated.”Some industry groups and investors who urge fewer regulations say the emphasis on the private markets is an outgrowth of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the federal law passed in 2002 that tightened accounting rules for public companies after the accounting scandals of the early 2000s. Besides raising disclosure requirements and other changes, the law required top executives to attest to the accuracy of corporate financial statements. Some say those higher costs to guarantee compliance can dissuade smaller companies from going public. Private companies, by comparison, can operate with far less disclosure. They are under no obligation to file quarterly earnings updates or audited annual financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nor are they required to broadly distribute updates on business developments to the public. Others say the decline in public offerings began before Sarbanes-Oxley passed. They attribute the change to a wave of federal deregulation, which made it easier to raise money and sell companies privately. Lighter antitrust enforcement set off a boom in mergers and acquisitions, allowing smaller firms to sell to bigger companies instead of going public. At the same time, new laws made it easier for private companies to sell securities to qualified investors around the country, bolstering funding from private equity and venture capital.Whatever the driver, the net result has been a clear downturn in the number of public companies in the United States. The number of listed companies has declined by 52 percent since 1997, to a bit more than 3,600 in 2016, according to a working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research published last year. This long-term shrinkage in publicly available shares is a reason that some analysts expect Uber, Lyft and other prominent start-ups to receive a warm response from the institutional investors who typically buy freshly issued shares, even if the potential upside could be smaller. “There’s an element, I think, of pent-up demand here,” said David Ethridge, who advises on public offerings at the consulting firm PwC. “I think people will have a feeling of, I don’t really want to miss out.”Investors have some reason to be skeptical of paying top dollar for newly minted public companies, however. Over the last two years, the value of companies that completed public offerings actually fell by an average of 8 percent, according to a recent research report from Goldman Sachs analysts. Over the same period, the S&P 500 stock index was up about 12 percent. Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Lyft’s stock market debut has set up its founders, employees, early backers and even those who scored shares in the initial public offering Thursday night for quite a windfall.But not everyone who invested in the company is reaping the spoils.Shares of the ride-hailing company rose nearly 9 percent on Friday. At over $26 billion, Lyft’s market value is almost double what private investors valued it at less than a year ago.But Lyft’s first-day gain is measured off the I.P.O. price (which was set on Thursday, when shares were divided up mostly among large funds). Ordinary investors who wanted in had to wait to buy the stock until it was available on public markets on Friday, and at a much higher price than the big funds paid.And those who bought as soon as trading began are already sitting on losses of a little more than 11 percent.It serves as an important reminder that amid all the hoopla around trading debuts, small investors wind up taking a lot of the risk. Most of the gains on the first day of trading for a stock are realized with the first trade.[Unicorns are riding into the public markets, and their elite early investors will be the biggest winners.]Over the past decade, companies listing shares on American stock exchanges have increased 14 percent from their I.P.O. price, according to Dealogic. But nearly all of the rise has come at the opening trade.That dynamic has played out in many of the prominent I.P.O.s in recent years. Facebook shares opened 10 percent higher on their first day of trading and then proceeded to give back almost all those gains to finish essentially unchanged for the day.Etsy was an extreme example of this. Its stock soared 94 percent on its first day of trading, but investors who bought at the open actually lost 3 percent by the close of trading.And it’s not just tech companies. Levi Strauss recently made its return to the public markets, selling shares to investors at $17 a piece on March 20. The stock opened the next day at $22.22, a 31 percent jump. For the rest of trading that day, though, it climbed less than 1 percent.Of course, if Lyft keeps growing as fast as Wall Street hopes it will, or works out how to turn a profit, then even the latecomers could wind up with respectable returns. Facebook shares are up more than 300 percent since their first day of trading, and after Etsy struggled for its first three years as a public company, its shares have more than doubled since they started trading.Still, not being able to buy at the I.P.O. price also greatly affects returns over the next year. Investors who bought shares at the offering price have averaged a 22 percent increase over the past decade. Returns for those that bought at the open? Sixty percent less.SAN FRANCISCO — Pinterest is preparing for its debut on Wall Street with a claim that few other “unicorn” start-ups can make: It is not a financial sinkhole.While the company is unprofitable, according to an offering prospectus made public on Friday, its losses are nowhere near as high as those of other well-known start-ups like Uber and Lyft, which are also getting ready to list their shares. That makes Pinterest — which lets people create digital “pin boards” — one of the rarer unicorns, a term applied to start-ups valued at more than $1 billion by private market investors.The deep losses afflicting many high-profile start-ups have cast investor doubts on the herd of companies that are stampeding toward the public market. Lyft recently revealed that it lost $911.3 million last year. Uber previously disclosed that it lost $842 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 alone. PagerDuty, a software start-up valued at $1.3 billion that also filed to go public this week, said in its prospectus that it was losing money. Only Zoom, a video conferencing company last valued at $1 billion, showed that it was making money, in an offering prospectus it filed on Friday.Pinterest’s filing reported that the company had lost $63 million in 2018. But that was much narrower than a year earlier, when it lost $138 million.At the same time, Pinterest is growing quickly. The company’s revenue, which came from advertising, totaled $756 million last year, up 60 percent from a year earlier. It listed a cash stockpile of $628 million.Pinterest also said in the filing that it had 265 million monthly active users in the fourth quarter of 2018, compared with 216 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Its number of users has grown steadily over the last two years, particularly as people outside the United States have begun to gravitate to its service.In its prospectus, Pinterest called itself “a productivity tool for planning your dreams.” The San Francisco company emphasized the visual, image-driven nature of its product, as well as its ability to capture people’s intent to buy things related to their pins. It said its mission was to “bring everyone the inspiration to create a life they love.”The document provides the first detailed look at Pinterest’s balance sheet. The company confidentially filed to go public in February, with Goldman Sachs, J. P. Morgan and Allen & Company underwriting the offering. It plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PINS.The filing did not say how much money Pinterest hopes to raise in the offering and did not specify potential share prices. Private market investors, who have poured around $1.5 billion into the company, last valued it at $12 billion. Its largest shareholders include Bessemer Venture Partners, FirstMark Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, Fidelity Investments and Valiant Capital Management, according to the filing.In a move that has become common among tech firms, Pinterest plans to divide its stock into two classes, giving its founders, top executives, employees and directors 20 votes per share. New investors will get one vote per share.Because Pinterest makes money from online advertising, it is a competitor to Facebook, Instagram, Amazon, Google, Twitter and Snap. In its prospectus, Pinterest listed those companies as competitors, as well as Allrecipes, a recipe website; Houzz, a home-improvement website; and Tastemade, a cooking content company.Some rivals are not increasing their revenue as quickly as Pinterest, said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, a manager of exchange-traded funds for I.P.O.s.“Like Snap, Pinterest is in the cross hairs of Facebook, and Facebook has always fought a nasty battle against Snap by copying everything it did,” she said, adding that anyone evaluating Pinterest’s stock should consider that competitive threat.Pinterest was started in Silicon Valley by Ben Silbermann, the company’s chief executive; Evan Sharp; and Paul Sciarra. Mr. Silbermann, 36, previously worked at Google. Pinterest grew out of Cold Brew Labs, a tech incubator founded by the three men in 2008.Although many unicorns made rapid growth their top priority, Mr. Silbermann favored what he calls “quality growth.” That meant he tried to build Pinterest slowly and steadily, even as its growth started to soar in 2011. “Pinners,” as users are known, essentially used Pinterest to create collagelike mood boards that expressed their aspirations.Today, pinners pin activities such as what they wear or what they are making for dinner, as well as ideas for remodeling a home or their wedding, or passions like bookmarking and other craft projects.Mr. Silbermann also deliberately took several years before turning Pinterest into a moneymaking enterprise. In 2014, the company began selling ads. For a spell, its growth appeared to be slowing and it lost executives, until Mr. Silbermann brought in a new chief operating officer, Francoise Brougher, and a new head of sales, Jon Kaplan, both formerly of Google.Unlike many of its social media peers, Pinterest has mostly avoided the proliferation of conspiracy theory and extremist content on its platform, moving quickly to tamp down on such content when it has bubbled up. In February, Pinterest began removing search results for anything related to vaccines in an attempt to stop anti-vaccination memes from spreading across the site.In contrast to many hard-charging and brash tech chief executives, Mr. Silbermann has kept a low profile. He rarely sat for glossy magazine covers or showed up at tech industry conferences. At one point, Pinterest was called an “anti-unicorn” because of how it shied from the spotlight. The timing of the unveiling of its prospectus — late on a Friday afternoon — was also in keeping with Mr. Silbermann’s style.Despite Mr. Silbermann’s low profile, the I.P.O. is expected to generate lots of attention from investors and market observers. “Significant revenue growth and popularity among users is going to be a pretty good recipe for — at a minimum — creating significant buzz around an IPO,” said Barrett Daniels, a partner at Deloitte who focuses on I.P.O. advisory work.Mr. Silbermann also avoided another trapping of tech founders with the prospectus: He did not publish a founder’s letter on Friday to carry on about his company’s mission and history, something that had become de rigueur among other entrepreneurs.SAN FRANCISCO — Owning a piece of the gig economy became a reality for millions on Friday when Lyft began trading on the public markets, signaling the start of a stream of stock offerings expected from high-profile technology companies this year.Lyft’s shares rose 8.7 percent in its first day of trading after opening at $87.24, far above the public offering price of $72. By the end of the day, the ride-hailing firm’s market value stood at $26.4 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade. At that level, it was more than 23 times the valuation of the parent company of Hertz, the rental car provider, and bigger than the parent of United Airlines.Lyft’s public market debut formalized the rise of the sharing economy, even though persistent questions remain about the effect of gig-type work on people’s quality of life and their wages. When ride-hailing companies like Lyft and Uber began growing this decade, they hawked their kind of work — where drivers are freelancers who drive only when they want to — as providing flexibility. But with drivers ineligible to receive employee benefits like health care, the businesses have since prompted lawsuits and labor protests.Gig economy companies also have not proved a business fundamental: that they can make money. While Lyft and Uber have been expanding rapidly, they have lost close to or more than $1 billion a year. And the companies are spending heavily on new initiatives like food delivery, electric bikes and self-driving vehicles, making profits a distant prospect.[Unicorns are riding into the public markets, and their elite early investors will be the biggest winners.]Even so, Lyft’s offering means that people will now own shares of the company in their mutual funds and stock portfolios, giving them more of a vested interest in the financial outcomes of gig economy firms. That will be compounded when Uber, the world’s biggest ride-hailing operator, goes public in the next few months in what is expected to be the largest initial public offering of the past five years. Uber will almost certainly become part of index funds, which underlie the retirement portfolios of millions of Americans.“Their business model is completely reliant on an unsettled issue, which is the status of their drivers,” Veena Dubal, an employment and labor law professor at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law, said of ride-hailing companies. “They’ve been trying to shift risk onto workers, and now they are shifting risk onto investors as well.”Those risks sent jitters through some investors on Friday, with Lyft’s shares falling after opening up strongly. The stock dipped to roughly $80 before declining further near the end of trading to finish the day at $78.29.But others turned a blind eye to the steep losses and heavy spending, which bodes well for the herd of other coming tech offerings. Apart from Uber, those set to join the I.P.O. bonanza are Pinterest, the digital pin board; the messaging company Slack; the delivery company Postmates; and the home-fitness company Peloton.Interest in buying Lyft’s stock was so high that demand outstripped supply within the first two days of the company’s road show to pitch prospective investors this month. By the end, the I.P.O. was 20 times oversubscribed, Lyft told investors on Friday.Lyft’s high listing price and performance are a “reflection of the appetite” from investors, said Tom White, a senior vice president at D. A. Davidson, a wealth and asset management firm. “Right now, I think investors generally are focused on growth.”With its initial offering, Lyft leapt ahead of Uber to become the first publicly traded ride-hailing firm. Logan Green and John Zimmer, Lyft’s founders, celebrated the event on Friday in Los Angeles, where pink confetti rained down them as they marked the occasion. The pair had founded Zimride, a long-distance car-pooling service for college students, in 2007. Zimride evolved into Lyft, which initially used the gimmick of fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches to distinguish its service.Mr. Green, 35, who grew up in Santa Monica, and has cited heavy traffic in the area as an inspiration for Lyft, and Mr. Zimmer, 34, used the I.P.O. to announce a program called Lyft City Works. The program will donate $50 million to transportation initiatives in cities where it operates.Mr. Green said he planned to further expand Lyft into other modes of transportation, including public transit.“We want Lyft to be the first app that you open up,” he said. “The biggest investments we’re making today are broadening the portfolio of products that you can access within Lyft.”The offering increased Mr. Green’s and Mr. Zimmer’s wealth, while allowing them to maintain tight control over their company. The pair hold a special class of shares that give them extra voting power, a practice common among tech founders but criticized by investor advocates.During the nearly two-week road show, Lyft pitched itself to institutional investors as a mission-driven company focused on reshaping the transportation industry. It emphasized its do-gooder stance on encouraging car-pooling and reducing the environmental impacts of individual car ownership.Investors’ most frequent question during the road show was what the company would look like in five years, Mr. Zimmer said. “Investors realized that ride-sharing is the tip of the iceberg,” he said.Using independent contractors to provide services has indubitably become the keystone of a generation of tech companies, from ride-hailing apps to food delivery services like DoorDash to hair and makeup services like Glamsquad. Some researchers said contingent work could account for 43 percent of the American work force by next year, though the Department of Labor has reported that the number of workers in gig roles has remained mostly flat since 2005.“I think it’s quite clear that this is part of a larger trend in the economy,” said Sean Aggarwal, Lyft’s chairman. “That makes it an exciting story for the long-term investor. It gives them an opportunity to participate not just in this gig economy transformation but also in this larger trend of transportation as a service.”Mr. White of D. A. Davidson said the good will toward Lyft would eventually evaporate if it ultimately couldn’t make money.“As we get closer to 2020, there will be an expectation that we see them narrow the losses,” he said.The initial public offerings of Lyft and Pinterest will give investors the chance to buy into young, fast-growing companies led by founders with ambitious visions.But to get a piece of that action, investors will have to give up something big: an equal say in how the companies are run.Lyft, a ride-share company, and Pinterest, a social media network, will deprive their new shareholders of full voting rights when they go public in the coming days and weeks. Both companies plan to issue shares to a small number of insiders that have far more voting power than the shares everyone else will own.The use of two classes of shares has become increasingly popular among Silicon Valley start-ups going public. But such share structures have also prompted a backlash. Big investors, corporate-governance experts and even some tech executives warn that the issuance of super-voting shares undermines the system of accountability that has long been a pillar of public stock markets.Still, the Lyft and Pinterest offerings show that the desire to retain control after going public remains strong.Who gets what?Both Pinterest and Lyft are issuing two classes of stock, one that gives its holders 20 votes each and another, owned by outside investors, that will have one vote each.In Lyft’s case, the two founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will control 49 percent of the company’s voting power, while holding just under 5 percent of the overall shares. Pinterest has not yet disclosed numbers needed to do a similar breakdown. Google opted for a dual-class structure as it went public in 2004, when it was fairly unusual for tech companies to do so. Facebook issued shares that gave control to its founders in its 2012 I.P.O. Snap, a social media company, sold shares to the public in 2017 with no voting rights, which prompted an outcry. But that hasn’t slowed their adoption. Last year, nearly two-thirds of technology companies going public had more than one class of shares, compared with a quarter five years earlier, according to data from Dealogic.And it’s not just technology companies that have embraced maintaining control. Levi Strauss, which went public last week, has shares that put most of the voting power in the hands of its founder’s descendants. And some media companies, The New York Times Company included, have special shares that give control to their holders.Uber may buck this trend, though. The ride-sharing company is preparing to make its public market debut this year and is expected to do so with one class of stock.Why should investors be wary of unequal voting rights?As owners of a company, shareholders expect to have some sway over management. Full voting rights give them a greater voice in who’s on the board and how much executives get paid, and on big decisions, like whether to sell the company. Diminishing public holders’ voting rights can give insiders too much power and insulate executives who make poor decisions. Strong boards, as well as the looming threat of activist investors, do a lot to assure top executives are responsive, says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online real estate brokerage. “The feeling that I serve at the pleasure of the board, that it is a privilege to work at Redfin, is fundamental to this company and the best of business culture,” he said.It’s hard to say definitively whether companies with unequal voting rights perform better or worse over time. Google has grown strongly over the years, but so have Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, which don’t give special control to insiders. Viacom’s stock has done poorly while CBS’s has done quite well; Sumner M. Redstone, with the help of his daughter, Shari Redstone, controls both companies through voting shares. Much also depends on the type of control a company grants. Robert J. Jackson Jr., a commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission, has cited analysis showing that companies that give control to insiders in perpetuity ended up with lower valuations on the stock market than those that planned to get rid of unequal voting rights after a certain period.The question of control may become crucial when a company gets into trouble. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, faltered in his response to abuse of the company’s network and data. Shareholder advisory groups last year pressed for changes that they said would improve governance, including setting up a special risk committee on the board, but they did not get the necessary votes.  Mr. Zuckerberg enjoys the protection of powerful voting shares. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment.There can be advantages to having controlling shares.Perhaps the biggest is that they can shield executives from pressures to bolster a company’s performance in the near term and give them more freedom to make investments that take time to pay off. Google has made that argument.Of course, it is possible for companies that don’t issue special controlling shares to shrug off the “short-termism” of the stock market. Amazon has plowed significant sums into new businesses for years and is among the most valuable companies in the world. But companies at a vulnerable stage in their development may benefit from giving control to their leaders as they pursue their visions for their companies. Lyft, for instance, is planning big investments in self-driving vehicle technology, and the company’s stock may suffer if they don’t immediately bear fruit. And though Facebook’s controlling shares may have helped set the stage for its stumbles, the arrangement may also have helped the company respond. Since the scandals, Facebook has increased its spending to safeguard its network. Wall Street analysts have at times questioned the need for such costs, but Mr. Zuckerberg can mostly ignore them because of the voting power in his hands.There is a middle road.Some efforts to address the use of high-voting shares have focused on how long these classes of shares exist. Critics oppose arrangements that allow the holders to keep control until they die, or those that allow the shares to be passed on to descendants. These create what Mr. Jackson, the S.E.C. commissioner, has called “corporate royalty.”Instead of granting long-term or perpetual control, a few companies have adopted structures that convert controlling shares into ordinary shares after a certain number of years. But this approach has failed to gain traction. In the three years through 2018, only 29 percent of the I.P.O.s with special controlling shares had a provision that allow their superior voting power to expire after a certain period, according to a New York Times analysis of data provided by the Council of Institutional Investors, a group that has criticized unequal voting rights.Lyft’s controlling shares won’t lose any of their power over time, but the company has attempted to bolster its corporate governance by having an independent chairman. Other companies have taken this step, including Snap, but it hasn’t been enough to satisfy critics of unequal share classes. “A lot of companies think an independent chair is a good idea, but is that person going to last forever?” Mr. Jackson said, “Is there anything to stop them from removing the independent chair?”Pinterest has a seven-year time limit, but it only kicks in if the holders of the high-voting shares own less than half the shares they had just before I.P.O. “I would not count that as a true, time-based sunset,” said Andrew Winden, a fellow at Stanford Law School Rock Center for Corporate Governance, referring to phaseout provisions. Good Sunday morning, and welcome to a special edition of the DealBook Briefing, where we’ll take a deep dive into Lyft’s upcoming public offering. It’s the first of many decacorns about to go public. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)And … they’re off!Lyft plans to make its public market debut in the coming week. The car sharing company’s I.P.O. will be the first of many highly valued tech companies that are expected to hit American stock exchanges this year.Uber, Slack, Postmates and Pinterest have all filed documents with the S.E.C. to list shares. Palantir, Peloton and possibly Airbnb are expected to follow later this year.America’s most successful start-ups have remained off-limits to most investors for years:• Venture capital cash allowed America’s current wave of unicorns to eschew the public markets — and the spotlight that comes with them.• That means a large portion of investors have been unable to buy a slice of the fastest-growing start-ups.With Lyft’s I.P.O., that’s about to change, which explains much of the excitement it is generating. Here’s your cheat sheet for the offering.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Stephen Grocer in New York and edited by Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________How Lyft’s business stacks upFounded by Logan Green and John Zimmer in 2007, Lyft was initially called Zimride and focused on pooling riders for long-distance trips. In 2012, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer renamed the company Lyft and shifted the business toward providing short trips, mimicking taxi rides.Here’s how it sizes up today:• Lyft gave 18.6 million people at least one ride in the last quarter of 2018, up from 6.6 million in late 2016.• It has a 39 percent share of the United States ride-sharing market,  based on estimates by the Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which is an investor in Lyft. That is up from 22 percent in 2016. But Lyft has been offering discounts to riders ahead of its offering, and the company warned: “We believe that much of the growth in our rider base and the number of drivers on our platform is attributable to our paid marketing initiatives.”• Lyft only operates in the U.S. and Canada, unlike Uber, which has operations across the globe.• But it has matched its rival’s innovation, by developing self-driving car technology and expanding into short-term bike and scooter rentals.Its plan for the offeringLyft will list its shares on the Nasdaq under the ticker of, er, “LYFT.”The company expects to be valued at as much as $23 billion. It plans to sell about 35.4 million shares, including the additional shares allotted to the underwriters, at between $62 to $68 a piece. At the high-end of that range, it will raise $2.4 billion.That’s well above the $15.1 billion that private investors valued it at during a financing round in June.And it would make it one of the largest I.P.O.s in the past 10 years. At a $23 billion valuation, Lyft’s offering would rank as the fifth largest since the financial crisis, and among the largest ever for American technology start-ups — only Facebook’s I.P.O. in 2012 would be larger. JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Jefferies are the lead underwriters of the I.P.O. for Lyft. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, the top underwriters of tech I.P.O.s recently, are both working on Uber’s offering.In all, Lyft will have 29 underwriters for its I.P.O., 13 (or 45 percent) of which are firms owned or led by women, minorities and military veterans. By comparison, such firms accounted for 30 percent of the underwriters Facebook selected for its I.P.O. and 14 percent for Snap’s.Lyft’s vision for maintaining controlAfter going public, the company will have two classes of stock: class A shares, which carry one vote each, and class B shares, which carry 20 votes. Lyft plans to sell only class A shares in the offering.Lyft’s two founders will hold the Class B shares. That means that Mr. Green, the C.E.O., and Mr. Zimmer, the president, will own roughly 5 percent of the company’s outstanding stock but control nearly 49 percent of its voting shares.This is quite normal in Silicon Valley. Facebook and Google went public with a dual-class structure that gave outside shareholders one vote per share and insiders 10 votes per share. Snap went further: It issued only nonvoting shares during its 2017 I.P.O.But the practice is increasingly controversial among governance experts. Kenneth Bertsch, the executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, said in a letter to Lyft’s outside board members: “The principle of one-share, one-vote is a foundation of good corporate governance and equitable treatment of investors.”Companies with dual-class stock structures outperformed those with a single stock structure in recent years, according to some studies. But prior to 2010, studies show, such companies didn’t perform as well.A look at Lyft’s booksLyft is growing quickly. Its revenue more than doubled to $2.16 billion last year from 2017.Its losses are also increasing, though not nearly as quickly. The company reported a loss of $911 million last year, up from $688 million in 2017. Total costs and expenses were $3.1 billion in 2018, up 77 percent from $1.8 billion in 2017. Uber’s losses are smaller in percentage terms. Lyft’s rival, which has disclosed its finances for several years even though it is not public, said in February that it lost $1.8 billion in 2018 on net revenue of $11.3 billion.Bookings, which represent fares less taxes, tolls and tips, surpassed $8 billion last year for Lyft, 76 percent more than in 2017. (In 2018, Uber increased its bookings to $50 billion, up 45 percent from 2017.)Lyft plans to funnel some future profits into ethical investing. In its pitch to investors, it says it expects “to invest the greater of 1% of our profits or $50 million annually toward our social impact efforts.”What can go wrong?The risk factor section of any I.P.O. prospectus acts as a warning label for investors. Lyft’s is no different, but it offers a discussion of regulatory and data security issues that could become a recurring theme in this year’s I.P.O.s.Rivals: The company faces a long list of competitors on several fronts. Uber, Gett (along with its acquisition Juno) and Via are its main ride-sharing rivals, along with regular taxi companies and automotive manufacturers, such as BMW, that are looking to enter the sector. Its bike and scooter sharing business faces competition from Lime, Bird and Uber’s acquisition Jump. And Waymo, Apple, Baidu, Uber and a number of other tech and auto companies compete with it on autonomous vehicles.Regulation: Lyft says its industry is “rapidly evolving and increasingly regulated.” It warns investors that it has “been subject to intense regulatory pressure from state and municipal regulatory authorities across the United States and Canada, and a number of them have imposed limitations on or attempted to ban ride sharing.”Labor: Lyft’s million-plus drivers are independent contractors, not employees. Legal actions that classify them as employees “could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations,” the company says.Autonomous driving: Among the biggest risks involved in the push to driverless cars is getting beaten in the race. The first companies to offer autonomous ride sharing “are expected to have long-term advantages compared with traditional non-autonomous ride sharing offerings,” Lyft says.Who’s going to get rich?For Lyft’s current shareholders and employees, the I.P.O. could provide a windfall. Here’s a rundown of who stands to gain.• Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer will hold stakes in the company that are set to be worth $570 million and $390 million, respectively.• The Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten is Lyft’s biggest shareholder, with a 13 percent stake. At $68 a share, its holdings would be valued at $2.1 billion. It will own 11.6 percent of Lyft’s stock after the I.P.O.• General Motors invested $500 million in Lyft in 2016. That stake could be worth as much as $1.27 billion at the time of the I.P.O.• The fund giant Fidelity is Lyft’s third largest shareholder. Its stake could be worth as much as $1.26 billion.• Alphabet owns 12,828,964 shares, most of them purchased by its venture capital arm, CapitalG. That stake is worth $870 million at the high end of the range.• The venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz was among the earliest investors in Lyft. At $68 a share, the firm’s stake will be valued at just over $1 billion.Inside Lyft’s boardGovernments and money managers have made a push to improve gender diversity on corporate boards. Last fall, California, where Lyft is headquartered, became the first state to require its publicly held corporations to include women on their boards.Lyft will have three women on its board:• Valerie Jarrett. The former senior adviser to President Barack Obama has been on Lyft’s board since July 2017.• Maggie Wilderotter. The former chief executive of the telecom company Frontier Communications joined Lyft’s board in May 2018.• Ann Miura-Ko. The co-founder of Floodgate Fund, a venture capital firm, has served on the board since June 2016.Rounding out the board of directors are: its chairman, Sean Aggarwal, of Soar Capital; Ben Horowitz of Andreessen Horowitz; David Lawee of CapitalG; and Hiroshi Mikitani of Rakuten.What everyone’s saying about the I.P.O.Lyft and Uber are unlike any other businesses, Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. That “makes it difficult for potential investors to feel confident that they’re paying the right price given the potential reward and the potential risk that the on-demand ride business isn’t financially viable or as large as optimists believe.”Lyft’s investors “will need to strap themselves in for what may be long periods of rather ugly numbers,” according to Heard on the Street’s Dan Gallagher. That’s because “decacorns tend to share two characteristics: plenty of money and a propensity to spend it in a race to build up share.”“Investors may still want to decide between” Lyft and Uber, argues Richard Beales of Breakingviews. “If their fear of missing out allows them to look past the absence of foreseeable profit at either company, though, it’s hard to see any sensible course other than to put money on both.”“The last time a fast-growing, lossmaking tech company tried this hard to persuade Wall Street to judge it by its own measure of profits, things didn’t end well,” the FT’s Richard Waters writes. He is referring to Groupon.And finally, its elevator pitchAn I.P.O. prospectus often features an idealistic, sometimes corny, letter from the company’s founders about their vision for the firm. Here are a couple of choice cuts from Lyft’s letter:“The Y in Lyft. The why in what Lyft is doing is most important to us, as well as the cities and communities we serve, and it will always be our company’s North Star. Lyft’s mission is to: improve people’s lives with the world’s best transportation.”“Lyft has the opportunity to deliver one of the most significant shifts to society since the advent of the car. We do not take that lightly, and we intend to lead this shift with integrity, humanity and strong execution.”Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.You can find live updates throughout the week at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Lyft was not the first ride-hailing company. But it is poised to become the first publicly traded one, and investors’ appetite for its shares proved enormous.The company priced its shares at $72 each on Thursday, after raising its price range amid significant demand from prospective shareholders. That puts Lyft’s value at more than $24 billion as it prepares to begin trading on the Nasdaq stock market on Friday, under the ticker symbol LYFT.In total, the company raised about $2.3 billion, having also increased the number of shares that were sold. (That amount could grow if Lyft’s underwriters sell an additional block of shares to meet even stronger-than-expected investor demand.)The offering marks the arrival of a new generation of Silicon Valley darlings on the public markets. Many of the companies promised new business models, upended established industries such as transportation and triggered a chain effect on how people work and make a living. The public offerings cement the place of the companies in people’s lives, promise millions of dollars in investment gains for their longtime backers and are set to unleash a new wave of wealth in the tech industry.[Lyft’s shares soared on Friday when it began trading on public markets.]Among those set to follow in Lyft’s footsteps is its archrival, Uber, whose initial public offering in the next few months is expected to be the biggest in years. Others on the docket include the digital pin board company Pinterest, the messaging platform Slack and the delivery service Postmates, all betting that they will also gain enthusiastic backing from investors.“The strong demand for Lyft certainly bodes well for other unicorns,” said Jay Ritter, a professor at the University of Florida’s Warrington College of Business, using a term for start-ups valued at $1 billion or more.But some investors worry that these companies, awash in red ink and unlikely to turn a profit for years, are being valued too highly and could ultimately disappoint their new public-market backers. Some companies that went public while running big losses, including Groupon and Snap, now trade well below their I.P.O. prices.In its offering prospectus, Lyft revealed that it lost close to $1 billion in 2018. Lyft and Uber regularly lose money in their competition to win new markets, where they spend amply on subsidies for riders and drivers. The companies also burn cash on other transportation initiatives, like bikes, scooters and autonomous vehicles. Last year, Lyft bought the largest bike-sharing company in the United States for around $250 million.“With Lyft, obviously, the market is saying, ‘We’re willing to give you the benefit of the doubt on a lot of things,’ given that there are huge uncertainties about its future,” Mr. Ritter said.At its I.P.O. price, Lyft’s market value puts it within range of old-line auto companies like Ford Motor. It is a significant increase from the $15.1 billion that Lyft earned in its last private fund-raising round last year.Over the past week and a half, Lyft executives and their bankers embarked on a roadshow that took them from New York to Kansas City to San Francisco, pitching their business to institutional investors. Lyft initially set a price range of $62 to $68 for its shares, before raising that range on Wednesday to $70 to $72. The offering was led by JPMorgan Chase and Credit Suisse.Between 2001 and 2018, I.P.O.s that were priced above their initial range averaged a return of 37 percent, Mr. Ritter said.But Lyft must now prove that it is worth the eye-popping valuation bestowed upon it by its new public-market investors. That challenge includes maintaining its enviable growth rate — it more than doubled its revenue in 2018 — while showing that its focus on transportation, rather than branching out into ever-more business lines as Uber has, can be lucrative.The offering’s success will bring windfalls for Lyft’s biggest existing investors. Among them: the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, who are poised to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars; Rakuten, the Japanese e-commerce giant; and venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz.Though Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer are taking their company public, they will still retain control, following in a long tradition of founder-led technology businesses. The two own special holdings that give them nearly 49 percent of voting shares, despite owning less than 5 percent of the overall stock.Lyft also plans to give cash bonuses to drivers who have completed a large number of rides for the company, so that they can buy shares at the I.P.O. price. Drivers with 10,000 rides will receive $1,000, which at the $72 price would allow them to buy 13 shares before taxes. Drivers who have finished 20,000 rides will receive $10,000.Only full-time drivers who have been with the platform for several years are likely to make the cut, said Harry Campbell, an Uber and Lyft driver who runs the driver blog and resource site The Rideshare Guy.“It was the right thing to do,” he said of Lyft’s cash bonuses for drivers. “If you gave 10,000 rides for Lyft, you actually were a big part of helping build this company.” He added that the I.P.O. was “kind of exciting to be part of” for drivers.Unlike Lyft’s employees and early investors, who are restricted by a lockup period from selling their shares, drivers will be able to sell any Lyft stock purchased through the cash bonus program as soon as the company begins trading on the public market, according to an email sent to qualifying drivers and reviewed by The New York Times.But the cash bonuses ultimately did not satisfy many drivers, who work as freelancers for Lyft and Uber and do not receive full-time employee benefits. This week, hundreds of them protested in San Francisco and Los Angeles against lower pay rates.“If political will starts to shift against Uber and Lyft, that’s a scary proposition,” Mr. Campbell said.Good Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The F.A.A. and Boeing face grillings todayAviation regulators will testify before Senate subcommittees today on the crashes of two Boeing 737 Max 8 Jets, while Boeing meets with airline executives to update them on a fix for the software thought to be responsible for the accidents.The F.A.A.’s acting chief will defend the agency’s practice of delegating some plane safety checks to Boeing as “critical” to the success of the certification process. The official, Daniel Elwell, will argue that the process for the Max 8 was “detailed and thorough.”Senators are expected to ask about long-running doubts about the process. The NYT reports that F.A.A. employees and a Transportation Department watchdog worried over the years that the agency had “too close a relationship” with Boeing officials. Lawmakers will also ask why an update to the jet’s anti-stall software is still not ready.Boeing’s response to the crisis is also being questioned, particularly since its C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, has largely remained silent. “Their comments have been very engineering-esque,” Richard Levick, a communications expert, told the NYT. (The company’s public response has become more assertive since hiring the crisis communications firm Sard Verbinnen.)The company will meet today with 200 pilots and airline representatives at the factory where the Max 8 is made. It’s expected to offer some updates on the anti-stall software.More Boeing news: A Max 8 made an emergency landing in Orlando yesterday, though the incident is not thought to be connected to malfunctions that may have led to the two recent crashes.Europe adopts tough new copyright rulesThe European Parliament voted yesterday to pass a new copyright law requiring technology platforms to sign licensing agreements with musicians, authors and news publishers in order to post their work online, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.“The new law is meant to force tech firms to aggressively remove unlicensed copyrighted material from their websites proactively, rather than waiting for complaints to come in before acting,” Mr. Satariano writes.The policy is deeply divisive. Digital rights activists and the tech industry say it could result in censorship. Media organizations say it should protect Europe’s creative industries and ensure companies pay for content they share online.Some digital business models could be affected, because website owners will take on more responsibility for what ends up on their platforms. Sites may find the law too expensive or cumbersome to police: Even Google shuttered its News service, which would require licenses from publishers under the new rules, when a similar initiative was introduced in Spain.Smaller organizations may be hit hardest. These websites contend that giant tech platforms already have the resources to comply with the law, Mr. Satariano writes.Purdue Pharma pays $270 million to settle an opioid lawsuitPurdue Pharma, the drug maker behind OxyContin, said yesterday that it will settle a lawsuit by Oklahoma’s attorney general over its role in the opioid crisis, Jan Hoffman of the NYT reports.Purdue and its owners will pay $270 million, far more than they have paid in previous settlements. The payout helps Purdue avoid a televised trial that was scheduled to begin on May 28.But many more legal battles await. A federal judge in Cleveland alone is overseeing a consolidated collection of 1,600 lawsuits, and 35 other states have sued Purdue as well.The settlement raises questions about a Purdue bankruptcy. The company has contemplated filing for Chapter 11 protection to help contain the cost of defending or settling its legal fights. In bankruptcy, lawsuit claimants would most likely get only a fraction of any court-determined payout.Chapter 11 weighed heavily in the Oklahoma case. The state made a bird-in-the-hand decision, and other plaintiffs may need to make a similar choice. “The concern is that counties and states may settle on the cheap early to avoid getting little to nothing later on,” Elizabeth Chamblee Burch, a law professor at the University of Georgia, told the NYT.Wall Street bonuses widen gender and race pay gapsNew data about Wall Street compensation shows that the financial sector’s huge pay has widened the national disparity between white men and women and people of color, according to a new report from the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal think tank.New York City’s financial sector bonus pool fell last year by 14 percent from the previous year, to $27.5 billion. But that is still three times bigger than the combined annual earnings of all U.S. full-time minimum-wage workers.A majority of financial workers are white men, especially at the top ranks, according to the institute. No less than 68 percent of senior managers at the five largest U.S. investment banks are white men.But they make up just 37 percent of America’s minimum-wage workers, who have full- or part-time jobs that pay $7.25 an hour. “Due to Washington inaction, the federal minimum wage continues to be a poverty wage, while the reckless bonus culture is alive and well on Wall Street,” the report concludes.In Apple vs. Qualcomm, both sides notch winsAs at least 80 patent fights between Apple and Qualcomm trickle through courts around the world, both companies scored victories yesterday, the WSJ reports.Some iPhones now face a U.S. import ban after an International Trade Commission judge issued an initial ruling yesterday finding that Apple had infringed a Qualcomm patent.But Apple scored a bigger victory when another I.T.C. judge ruled that the phone maker had not infringed a Qualcomm patent relating to power efficiency in mobile phones. That overturned a previous court finding.“Qualcomm is hoping a victory, particularly an import ban, could give it greater leverage in technology licensing negotiations,” Bloomberg explains. “Qualcomm says it’s due billions of dollars in unpaid royalties on the iPhone.”“Apple denied infringing any of the patents in the two cases and claimed Qualcomm is trying to shut its only U.S.-based competitor out of the market, something Apple argues will hinder the development of the fifth generation of mobile communications,” Bloomberg adds.Stock buybacks are bigger than everCorporate America set a record for stock repurchases last year, even as lawmakers proposed curtailing the practice.Companies bought back $806.4 billion worth of their own shares, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with $223 billion of that coming in the fourth quarter alone. The previous high was $589.1 billion, set in 2007.The biggest buyer was Apple, which repurchased $101 billion of its stock.The buyback boom was fueled by the Trump tax cuts, with companies preferring to use their savings to repurchase shares and bolster their stock prices, rather than issue dividends or make new investments.And it came despite opposition from Congress, with lawmakers from Senator Bernie Sanders to Senator Marco Rubio arguing in favor of limits on the practice.But a repeat is unlikely this year, as the sugar rush from the tax cuts wears off.Google’s robot reboot is all about softwareIn 2013, Google started an ambitious and flashy effort to create robots under the control of Andy Rubin, who later left the company amid accusations of sexual harassment. Now, the company has overhauled the effort with more modest goals — but subtly advanced technology, Cade Metz of the NYT reports.Google’s first robot push was all about advanced machines, and was built on a series of acquisitions. Some of the companies that Google bought relied on humanoid robots, but the tech giant failed to capitalize on them, and sold off or shut down the companies over time.Now the focus is on making robots smarter by injecting them with machine-learning software. “The company is developing ways for these robots to learn skills on their own, like sorting through a bin of unfamiliar objects or navigating a warehouse filled with unexpected obstacles,” Mr. Metz writes.“Google is tight-lipped about how it hopes to deploy the technologies it is working on,” Mr. Metz adds. That’s probably because most researchers see robots being used in warehouses and distribution centers around the world, raising questions about how automation will erode jobs.Revolving doorDealBook exclusive: The Brunswick Group plans to announce this morning that it has hired Michael O’Looney, most recently head of communications at Elliott Management, as a partner in New York and Courtney Chiang Dorman, who previously was the C.O.O. of the law firm Wilson Sonsini, as a partner in San Francisco.JC Penney hired Bill Wafford, most recently the chief financial officer of The Vitamin Shoppe, as its C.F.O.Simon Sutton is reportedly stepping down as HBO’s chief revenue officer.The speed readDeals• Lyft reportedly plans to raise the price range of its I.P.O. amid strong investor demand. (WSJ)• Renault reportedly plans to restart merger talks with Nissan and pursue a takeover of Fiat Chrysler. (FT)• Centene has agreed to buy WellCare, a managed-care rival, for $17.3 billion, including the assumption of debt. (PR Newswire)• The Chinese gaming company that owns Grindr reportedly plans to sell the dating app after the U.S. national security panel Cfius raised concerns about its ownership. (Reuters)• Spotify agreed to buy Parcast, a producer of crime and mystery podcasts. (NYT)Politics and policy• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom President Trump plans to nominate as a Fed governor, said he’s no “sycophant” for the president. (NYT)• Democrats see political opportunity as Mr. Trump moves to abolish the Affordable Care Act. Here’s what would happen if the Obama health care law is struck down. (NYT)• The House failed to override Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT)• The Green New Deal failed in a Republican-led vote in the Senate yesterday, as Democrats voted “present.” (Axios)• The Justice Department said that it plans to release a version of the Mueller report to Congress and the public within weeks. (WSJ)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal is slowly gaining support among critics in her Conservative Party — but some want her resignation in exchange for their votes. (Bloomberg)• The E.U. has reportedly suggested that if Britain asks for a long delay to Brexit, its departure could be pushed back until March 31, 2020. (Guardian)• More than half of British business leaders want a deal where Britain is closely aligned to the E.U.’s single market for goods and services. (FT)Trade• The U.S. is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. (NYT)• China’s humiliation in the 1800s feeds into its reluctance to let the U.S. impose tariffs if Beijing fails to keep its promises on trade. (NYT)Tech• Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., will reportedly meet with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff today to discuss the tech giant’s A.I. work in China. (Bloomberg)• A judge will hear arguments on April 4 on whether Elon Musk should be found in contempt of court. (Business Insider)• Three A.I. pioneers have won the Turing award, considered the Nobel of computing, for their work in developing artificial neural networks. (NYT)• Google is reportedly funding “dozens” of new local news websites around the U.S. (Axios)• Palantir reportedly won a Pentagon contract to build a battlefield intelligence system. (WaPo)Best of the rest• Wall Street firms, including JPMorgan Chase and Blackstone, have added #MeToo keywords like “harassment” to risk factors in their annual reports. (Business Insider)• Nissan reportedly paid at least $601,000 in Stanford tuition fees for Carlos Ghosn’s children. (Bloomberg)• Citigroup is being sued for age discrimination by a 56-year-old banker, who claims he was told “you are old and set in your ways” before being dismissed. (Bloomberg)• Lloyd’s of London announced measures to combat sexual harassment at the insurance brokerage, including lifetime bans for offenders. (Bloomberg)• Vice President Mike Pence said that the Trump administration wants NASA to put astronauts back on the moon by 2024 “by any means necessary.” (Verge)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft’s debut on the stock market is off to a bumpy start.The ride-hailing company went public in a blaze of glory on Friday, as its stock jumped 8.7 percent from its initial public offering price of $72 a share. On Monday, in its second day of trading, Lyft’s stock plunged nearly 12 percent to below $72, closing the day at $69.01.The rapid decline raises questions about investors’ appetite for fast-growing but unprofitable tech companies. While Lyft has been expanding and gaining new revenue, it lost nearly $1 billion last year. Ride-hailing companies often subsidize the cost of rides and pay incentives to drivers, which is expensive. And Lyft is also spending heavily on initiatives including electric bikes and self-driving technology.Other tech companies that went public while recording large losses, such as Snap, Twitter and Groupon, also eventually fell below their offering prices.“Everyone is taken up with the idea of the ride-hailing business; it’s exciting and high-growth,” said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, which manages an I.P.O.-focused exchange-traded fund that will include Lyft later this week. “But it’s hard to figure out their valuation.”Lyft declined to comment.[Not everyone who invested in Lyft is reaping the spoils.]Lyft’s performance could sway other high-profile tech companies that are planning to go public.Uber, the world’s biggest ride-hailing company, is planning to go public in the next few months; it is also deeply unprofitable. Others stampeding toward the public market include Pinterest, the digital pin board; Slack, the messaging company; and Peloton, the home-fitness company.“The ones following in the wake of Lyft will be priced more reasonably,” Ms. Smith said.Even if Lyft eventually makes money, its margins might be low, she cautioned. Lyft is constantly dealing with new competitors, which means that it may have to continue subsidizing its drivers and cutting the prices that it charges passengers. That makes profits a faraway prospect.The volatility in Lyft’s stock was not unexpected, said Tom White, a senior vice president at the wealth management firm D. A. Davidson. “Nothing has changed on the fundamental outlook for the business in the last few days,” he said.SAN FRANCISCO — Pinterest set a price range for its initial public offering that will value the company below its last private-market peg of $12 billion, raising questions about investor demand for prominent but unprofitable technology companies that are stampeding toward the stock market.In an updated prospectus on Monday, Pinterest said it planned to price its offering at $15 to $17 a share. At the high end of that range, the digital pin board company would be valued at about $11.3 billion, accounting for stock options and restricted stock. The business was first valued at $12 billion in 2015, and again in 2017, by venture capitalists and other private investors.Pinterest’s price range dampens some of the fervor over a wave of tech offerings this year, which had promised to generate piles of new wealth in Silicon Valley. It follows last month’s I.P.O. of Lyft, the ride-hailing company, which is deeply unprofitable. While the offering created a great deal of hype and Lyft’s shares rose on their first day of trading, the stock fell below its offering price on its second day of trading, as it faced questions about its business.“People are looking at Lyft and realizing that even if the road show goes extremely well and there is a lot of demand, you can’t overprice the offering,” said Elliot Lutzker, corporate and securities partner at Davidoff Hutcher & Citron.He added that investors were looking more at business fundamentals. “Not every company is an Amazon that can afford to lose money for years and years while growing,” he said.How Lyft and Pinterest perform in their public debuts will be critical in the lead-up to the public offering of Uber, the largest of this generation of tech start-ups. Uber is expected to go public in the next few months at a valuation of around $120 billion, in what would be the biggest I.P.O. by an American company.Several other smaller companies are also planning public offerings, including Zoom, a video conferencing company; PagerDuty, a software company; and Slack, an office communications company.Pinterest’s filing on Monday coincided with the beginning of the company’s so-called road show, during which it plans to pitch institutional investors before the company’s final I.P.O. pricing and first day of trading. High demand from investors over the next several days could lead the company to raise the price of its shares.At the midpoint of its price range, the company would raise around $1.2 billion from public market investors. Pinterest also has $628 million in cash on its balance sheet.If Pinterest goes public below its last private market valuation, that will not be a first for this generation of highly valued start-ups. Box, a cloud storage company, went public in 2015 at $1.6 billion, below its $2.4 billion private market valuation. The company now trades at a $2.8 billion market capitalization. Square, a payments company that was worth $6 billion in the private market, went public in 2015 at a $2.9 billion valuation. Square now has a $31 billion market capitalization.In total, private investors have poured about $1.5 billion into Pinterest. A market debut below $12 billion could spell a loss for the ones that invested most recently.But the company’s earlier investors will still see huge paydays. In its updated prospectus, Pinterest revealed the ownership stakes of its biggest shareholders, which include the venture capital firms Bessemer Venture Partners, FirstMark Capital and Andreessen Horowitz. At the midpoint of the proposed I.P.O. price range, Bessemer’s stake would be worth $952 million, FirstMark’s would be worth $710 million, and Andreessen’s would be $696 million.The biggest individual shareholder is Ben Silbermann, Pinterest’s 36-year-old chief executive and co-founder. He owns 11.4 percent of Pinterest’s shares, making his stake worth $825 million at the midpoint of the pricing range. Evan Sharp, 36, another co-founder and the chief design and creative officer, owns 2.1 percent of the company.Pinterest, which makes digital pin boards that allow people to save images and links from around the web, took off around 2011. Pinners, as users are known, create collagelike mood boards on topics like food, events and hobbies. Mr. Silbermann, who has taken a conservative approach to spending and growth, sought to build the company slowly. In 2014, Pinterest began selling ads.Mr. Silbermann’s methods contrasted with those of other entrepreneurs who lead companies known as unicorns, which are valued at more than $1 billion by private investors. Such companies have typically put a priority on fast growth over profits and take many years to go public. Unicorns that sell or go public below their last private valuation are known as undercorns.Like its peers, Pinterest loses money. But the company, which generates revenue from advertising, is burning less cash than Lyft or Uber. Last month, Pinterest revealed it lost $63 million on revenue of $756 million in 2018. Pinterest is also growing quickly, reporting a 60 percent jump in revenue from 2017 to 2018.The company plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PINS.(Reuters) - Shares of ride-hailing company Lyft Inc rose as much as 4 percent on Friday, setting the stock for its best day since its market debut last week, after short-seller Citron Research advised investors to hold on to the stock.The number of active Lyft riders has surged fivefold to 18.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, from the first quarter of 2016, and those numbers are set to rise further, Citron said, listing several other reasons to not be short on Lyft.As of Thursday, Lyft's short interest was $937 million, with 13.38 million shares shorted, which makes up about 41.2 percent of its float, according to data from S3 Partners, a financial technology and analytics firm.Citron, which has held a stake in Lyft for the last two years, said it has increased its position in the company in the open market.Describing ride-sharing as a "megatrend", and not just a fad, Citron said Lyft has good prospects, especially since millennials are foregoing car ownership for ride-sharing."This is not a trendy video game or a GoPro camera... this is a way of life that is saving people time and ensuring safety," the note said."The entire rideshare market in the U.S. only accounts for 1 percent of miles traveled today…. we have only just begun," Citron said.But brokerage Seaport Global, which started coverage on Lyft with a "sell" rating on Tuesday, said it was skeptical that consumers will give up car ownership in favor of relying on ride-hailing services.Daiwa Capital Markets also initiated coverage on the company on Thursday, with an 'outperform' rating and a price target of $80. The rating reflects strong revenue growth potential ahead for the company, the brokerage said, but added it expects losses to increase through 2020, and then reach break even by the end of 2022.Lyft's shares fell below their IPO price of $72 on their second day of trading, erasing all debut gains, after market research companies cited lack of a clear path to profitability. The company did not mention when it would turn profitable. It reported a loss of $911 million in 2018, wider than its $688 million loss in 2017, despite revenue doubling in 2018 to $2.16 billion.Daiwa added autonomous robotaxis, currently under development at tech and auto companies, are among the biggest threats to the company. (Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru; Editing by James Emmanuel)Uber gave the first sign of how big its highly anticipated initial public offering might be, telling some investors that its stock sale might value it at up to $100 billion, people briefed on the matter said.The number, which is below a $120 billion valuation that had been floated by investment bankers, highlights the size of the ride-hailing colossus as it prepares to embark on its market debut, the biggest in recent years. Its shares are expected to begin trading on the public markets next month.The revelation follows the I.P.O. last month of Uber’s main North American competitor, Lyft, whose shares have since dropped more than 15 percent from their offering price. Another Silicon Valley darling, the digital pin board Pinterest, this week set pricing expectations for its own market debut below its last private fund-raising round.The moves raise questions about investor appetite for prominent but unprofitable technology companies, with a slew of them — including the messaging company Slack and the home fitness company Peloton — also aiming to list their shares this year.“It’s the Lyft effect,” said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital who manages an I.P.O. fund. “This is what Uber should try very hard to avoid — it should not have a stock that breaks its I.P.O. price.”Uber’s potential $100 billion valuation was earlier reported by Reuters and The Wall Street Journal.Uber is expected to publish its public offering prospectus on Thursday, giving investors a closer look into its businesses. That document will not provide any information on the offering’s potential price, but the company recently disclosed its latest thinking about its own valuation to some investors.In a notice to holders of some of its convertible bonds last week, Uber said that its stock could be valued at $48 to $55 a share, said the people briefed on the situation, who asked not to be identified because the details were confidential. That would translate into a valuation of about $90 billion to $100 billion for the company, factoring in the roughly $10 billion that it expects to raise.The people briefed on the matter cautioned that the I.P.O. process was continuing and that it was too early to determine what Uber’s valuation would ultimately be. The company’s underwriters, led by Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, could still raise the price of the shares — and therefore its valuation — in the coming weeks if there is enough interest from prospective shareholders.Even at $90 billion to $100 billion, Uber would be valued well above the $76 billion it was appraised at in its most recent fund-raising in August. Investment bankers last year reckoned the company could fetch a valuation of as much as $120 billion in the public markets.At $90 billion to $100 billion, Uber would be one of the largest American tech companies to go public in recent years. Its debut would be rivaled only by Facebook, which went public at $104 billion in 2012. Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, was the largest initial offering, at $168 billion in 2014. Lyft, by contrast, has a market capitalization of about $17 billion.In recent weeks, brokers who sell shares on behalf of employees and early investors have offered Uber stock to buyers at the $80 billion to $100 billion valuation range, according to two people familiar with them. These sales, on what is known as the secondary market, mean sellers can lock in their returns without waiting for the I.P.O. lockup period to end, while avoiding uncertainty about how the stock will trade. In 2017, some of Uber’s early investors and employees sold portions of their stock to SoftBank as part of the Japanese conglomerate’s $7 billion investment in the company.Although Uber’s debut is hotly anticipated, the company remains unprofitable. The ride-hailing service has released some of its quarterly earnings figures publicly, even though it was not obligated to do so as a private company. In February, Uber said it lost $842 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 on revenue of $3 billion.How the company will get to a point where it makes more money than it loses is likely to be a key question when Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s chief executive, meets with investors to sell shares in the coming weeks. Mr. Khosrowshahi has pulled back from some markets where Uber was losing money, such as Southeast Asia. But he is also continuing to spend as the company expands into businesses such as food delivery and long-haul trucking.Mr. Khosrowshahi has previously emphasized the importance of Uber’s business being able to generate cash. He has also said that the company does not need to be making money before going public, but that it must be able to show a path to profits.“You need to demonstrate a very clear road to profitability,” Mr. Khosrowshahi said at the Fortune Brainstorm conference in July.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Lyft, just days into its existence as a publicly traded company, is drawing unwanted interest from Wall Street’s pessimists.Traders who bet that the stock will decline are piling into the ride-sharing company. These so-called short-sellers borrow and sell the shares, hoping to buy them back at a lower price sometime in the future.One way to gauge their interest in a stock is to look at the number of shares that are being lent, and as of Wednesday, 9.2 million shares, or $662 million worth of Lyft, were on loan, according to the data provider IHS Markit. That was equal to 28 percent of the shares actually available for trading, known as the float.By comparison, just 2 percent of Twitter’s float, and a similar amount of Snap’s, was on loan at the same point after their initial public offerings. For Facebook, that percentage was 8 percent.Currently, the shares on loan from Facebook and Twitter total fewer than 1 percent, and at Snap they’re nearly 9 percent.The percentage of shares on loan at Lyft is roughly equal to the level at Tesla, the electric-car maker, whose chief executive has waged a very public fight with short-sellers, accusing them of conspiring to bring his company down.Since making its public market debut on Friday, Lyft’s stock has stumbled. Shares closed Wednesday at $72, equal to Lyft’s I.P.O. price and off nearly 18 percent from their opening trade.Lyft’s performance is not unusual. Facebook fell below its offer price during its first week, and Snap traded well below its opening price in its first week.But the company’s debut was a test of investor appetite for fast-growing but unprofitable tech companies. While Lyft’s revenue more than doubled last year, it lost nearly $1 billion, and a number of Wall Street analysts have questioned whether it can maintain its current growth trajectory.The short-sellers are betting it can’t.FRANKFURT — Merck KGaA won the backing of Versum's board for a sweetened $6.5 billion takeover proposal, overturning an agreed merger with rival Entegris as it bets on a recovery in electronic materials markets."This proposal constitutes a 'Superior Proposal' as defined in Versum's previously announced merger agreement with Entegris, Inc.," Versum said in a statement on Monday.On a per share basis, Germany's Merck offered $53, up from $48 previously, after reviewing business data and following meetings between Merck Chief Executive Stefan Oschmann and Versum Chairman Seifi Ghasemi, filings showed.Entegris stepped back from the contest, saying it would not improve the terms of the all-share merger signed in January, which would have seen Versum investors receive $42.43 worth of Entegris stock for each Versum share. Versum will owe its jilted partner $140 million in termination fees if it hammers out a final deal to be bought by Merck, filings showed. Versum shares were up 1 percent at $51.70 at 1430 GMT, on track for a record closing high.Versum, the former specialty chemicals division of industrial gases group Air Products, had previously rejected Merck's overture, saying it was committed to the merger agreed with Entegris, also a supplier of materials for semiconductor production. Merck, a diversified healthcare and chemicals group, last month launched a hostile all-cash takeover offer to Versum shareholders - with a price tag of $5.9 billion including debt - as the German pharma group looks to boost its presence in the semiconductor materials market.Merck's swoop has been viewed by some analysts as seizing on beaten down stock prices in the volatile semiconductor industry after demand for mobile devices slowed and prices for memory chips sank.Merck, whose shares were up 0.3 percent, is seeking to further boost its high-tech chemicals division to supply more to the electronics industry, following the $2.6 billion purchase of Britain's AZ Electronic Materials in 2014. At the heart of Merck's chemicals division is a business making liquid crystals for flat screens, which has previously achieved operating income margins of 40-50 percent but is now suffering shrinking sales under intense pressure from Chinese rivals.Based on about $700 million in assumed Versum debt and about 109 million shares, the increased Merck offer would be worth close to $6.5 billion.  (Additional reporting by Saumya Sibi Joseph in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva/Keith Weir)Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Pinterest’s modest I.P.O. valuation should worry other unicornsThe digital pin board company disclosed today that its I.P.O. would value it at less than its last private fund-raising round. That’s a big warning sign for other tech companies that are poised to go public this year.The high range of Pinterest’s I.P.O. would value it at $11.3 billion, below the $12 billion attained from private investors two years ago. In Silicon Valley speak, that’s a “down round” — something companies generally hope to avoid because it undermines confidence.Coupled with early volatility in Lyft’s first days of trading, the Pinterest offering suggests that public market investors are wary of maintaining high valuations for tech start-ups, especially given that many won’t turn a profit for years.It comes as a slew of unicorns are preparing to go public, including Uber (whose I.P.O. was expected to give a valuation as high as $120 billion), the workplace messaging platform Slack and the software company PagerDuty.But there’s some reason not to panic yet. After initially falling below their I.P.O. price, Lyft shares bounced back. Other companies have gone on to do well after down rounds: For instance, the file-sharing company Box is trading well above its debut price two years after its I.P.O. And Pinterest could end up pricing its offering higher if investor demand proves robust during its road show.More I.P.O. news: Though many investors are betting against Lyft’s newly public stock, the high-profile short seller Andrew Left isn’t among them. How Ray Dalio would fix capitalismThe Bridgewater Associates founder argued last week that capitalism “needs to be reformed.” Now he has outlined how he would do it:Declare the wealth and opportunity gaps a national emergency. “I have a principle that you will not effect change unless you affect the people who have their hands on the levers of power so that they move them to change things the way you want them to change,” he writes.Devise clear metrics for success. “I’d bring that sort of accountability down to the individual level to encourage an accountability culture in which individuals are aware of whether they are net contributors or net detractors to the society, and the individuals and the society make attempts to make them net contributors.”Redistribute resources to eliminate disparities. Mr. Dalio’s personal recommendations include:• Creating private-public partnerships that would vet and invest in projects that produce both social and economic returns.• Raise taxes on pollution and other causes of bad health.• Impose targeted tax increases on the wealthiest to pay for social welfare programs to bolster economic productivity.Better coordinate monetary and fiscal policies, so that more money ends up in the hands of people who will spend it (the lower and middle classes) as opposed to saving it (the wealthy).Britain’s plan to police the internetThe British government has proposed sweeping new powers to regulate harmful content and false information, recommending one of the world’s most aggressive actions to police the internet, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.• A regulator would be given the power to “issue fines, block access to websites if necessary and make individual executives legally liable for harmful content spread on their platforms.”• Terrorism, inciting violence, encouraging suicide, spreading disinformation and cyberbullying are among the topics that companies would be required to address. The rules would apply to social media platforms, discussion forums, messaging services and search engines.• Facebook and Twitter will work with the government, representatives from the companies said.“Actions in Britain and elsewhere signal a new era for the internet. Western democracies have largely avoided regulating online communication,” Mr. Satariano writes. But governments have become more willing to intervene “as evidence mounts that online actions are having harmful real-life consequences by contributing to violence, compromising elections and spreading hateful ideologies.”“In the United States, where free speech is more of a core value than in other nations, there’s been less momentum to regulate internet content,” Mr. Satariano adds. But even in America, there is increasing support for new rules.Why you don’t want a partisan FedPresident Trump is ready to nominate Herman Cain and Stephen Moore — two vocal supporters of his policies — to the Federal Reserve board. Many analysts say such a move would politicize the central bank. Neil Irwin of the Upshot takes a look at what that would mean.Historically, Fed appointees have generally been economic experts who kept their political views out of policy discussions.Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain wouldn’t change much at first. They’d hold two of 12 votes on the Fed’s Open Market Committee, so their ability to swing other governors would depend on their politicking abilities.But over time, the Fed could lose credibility. “The United States’ role as the global reserve currency — which results in persistently low interest rates and little fear of capital flight — is built in significant part on the credibility the Fed has accumulated over decades,” Mr. Irwin writes.The financial world is watching closely. “I think it’s a very big benefit to the U.S. economy and the financial markets that we have a strong and independent Fed, and I hope that continues,” Ed Keon, the chief investment strategist at QMA, told CNBC.Carlos Ghosn is ousted from Nissan’s boardNissan shareholders voted today to remove their former chairman, Carlos Ghosn, from the board altogether, the WSJ reports.• “Much of the meeting was devoted to questions from angry shareholders, with many demanding Nissan executives step down for failing to find alleged wrongdoing.”• “In response to a shareholder who accused Chief Executive Hiroto Saikawa of failing to take responsibility for any of the alleged wrongdoing, Mr. Saikawa said: ‘I never said we didn’t have responsibility. The problem built up over 20 years, and we cannot correct it overnight.’ ”Mr. Ghosn will be replaced by Renault’s chairman, Jean-Dominique Senard. Greg Kelly, who is accused of abetting inaccurate disclosure of Mr. Ghosn’s compensation, was also voted off the board.More: Mr. Ghosn’s wife has appealed to the French government to help her husband.Time is running out of time for a Brexit compromisePrime Minister Theresa May sought to rekindle cross-party talks about her Brexit deal yesterday, just days before Britain is due to leave the E.U. without a deal, Benjamin Mueller of the NYT reports:• Mrs. May is seeking a way to persuade members of the opposition Labour Party to back her deal.• But Labour leaders maintained on Sunday “that Mrs. May had not yet bent to any of their demands on the withdrawal.”• “And whatever overtures she makes to Labour, analysts said, she will struggle to guarantee that her successor as prime minister or a future Parliament will not rip up any compromise deal — a major sticking point in the cross-party talks.”Mrs. May will try to get another extension from Brussels this week. What such a delay would look like is undecided: Mrs. May wants a simple extension, while the European Council’s president, Donald Tusk, wants something more flexible. Either way, it will require the support of all 27 E.U. leaders at a summit meeting on Wednesday.If she doesn’t get an extension, Britain may crash out of the E.U. without a deal — or remain in the political bloc.Revolving doorKirstjen Nielsen resigned as the secretary of homeland security yesterday. She’ll be replaced in the interim by Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection.Warren Buffett urged Wells Fargo, in which he owns a nearly 10 percent stake, to avoid picking a Wall Street veteran as its next C.E.O.Amazon has reportedly hired Rajeev Badyal, SpaceX’s former vice president of satellites, to lead its new satellite internet program.The Wing, the women-focused co-working company, has hired Rachel Racusen from Snap as its vice president of communications.Kathe Sackler and Mortimer D.A. Sackler, members of the family that controls the OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma, are said to have stepped down from the board of the New York Academy of Sciences.The speed readDeals• Saudi Aramco has reportedly drawn $30 billion worth of demand for its forthcoming bond offering, which had been expected to raise $10 billion. (FT)• The N.Y.S.E. and Nasdaq are fighting to secure I.P.O. listings by offering goodies like champagne receptions and scoreboard commercials at minor league baseball games. (WSJ)• Deutsche Bank told employees that it remained committed to its U.S. investment banking operations amid its merger talks with Commerzbank. (Bloomberg)• Grab, the Southeast Asia ride-hailing company, plans to raise $2 billion in funding. (Reuters)• Starboard Value called off its proxy fight at Dollar Tree after the company said it would consider new prices for the products it sells. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, said yesterday that Democratic lawmakers will “never” see President Trump’s tax returns. (Hill)• Don McGahn, the former White House counsel, reportedly told Republican senators that Mr. Trump is focused on appointing federal judges who will roll back the power of government agencies. (Axios)• 70 percent of Wall Street executives surveyed about the 2020 elections think that Mr. Trump will be re-elected in 2020. (CNBC)• Attorney General William Barr ordered investigations into whether the F.B.I. and other parts of the Justice Department discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. (NYT)Trade• Republicans fear that Speaker Nancy Pelosi may be holding up President Trump’s Nafta replacement in an attempt to kill it. (Axios)Boeing• Boeing is cutting production of its 737 Max jet after two fatal crashes. (NYT)Tech• There’s one screen that tech companies are still fighting to control: the one in your car. (WSJ)• Two college students in Oregon are accused of tricking Apple into replacing nearly 1,500 counterfeit iPhones with genuine ones that they later sold. (NYT)• Facebook hosted at least 74 cyber criminal groups where crooks traded stolen data, according to researchers. (Bloomberg)• And the company reportedly has an infrastructure plan for cutting internet costs in Africa. (WSJ)• Tesla’s board reportedly investigated an allegation that Elon Musk pushed a former employee, but found no evidence that the incident happened. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The lawyer Michael Avenatti, who is facing extortion charges, released 41 pages of documents that he claims show Nike bribed college basketball players. (CNBC)• Oil companies are investing in carbon-removal technologies. (NYT)• Wall Street is cutting forecasts for U.S. government bond yields. (WSJ)• Southeast Asia might not be the next “factory of the world,” according to Bain and Company. (CNBC)• Modern monetary theory is gaining traction at some of America’s biggest banks. (NYT)• Picking through the trash of Silicon Valley billionaires can be highly lucrative. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.HONG KONG — Chinese game-streaming company Huya Inc, backed by Tencent Holdings Ltd, has launched a follow-on share offering of about $343 million to raise funds for investment in its content and e-sports partners.Huya, which went public last year in New York, is part of a growing trend of Chinese tech companies returning to capital markets for cash soon after their initial public offering (IPO).Huya is selling 13.6 million primary shares, the game-streaming firm company said in a stock exchange filing. At the same time, social media platform YY Inc is selling 4.8 million of Huya shares, the filing showed.Based on its closing price of $25.23 on Monday, the combined sale could raise as much as $464 million.There is an over-allotment - or greenshoe option - of up to 15 percent for Huya's share sale, meaning the firm could raise as much as $394 million if exercised. There is likewise a 15 percent over-allotment for YY's stake sale.Huya is China's biggest live-streaming game platform, according to the offering prospectus, competing with Douyu which plans to go public in New York this year.China boasts the world's largest gamer base in e-sports with about 266 million gamers in 2018, the prospectus showed.Huya's shares have risen about 65 percent since the firm's IPO in May, in which it raised $180 million.Other companies from the 2018 IPO cohort returning for more funds include electric vehicle maker NIO Inc, video streaming company iQIYI Inc, e-commerce firm Pinduoduo Inc and video platform Bilibili Inc.Bankers are pinning their hopes for 2019 on additional capital raising through follow-on offerings or convertible bonds as the crop of Chinese companies looking to go public thins out after a blockbuster 2018 in terms of IPOs.Many of the companies that went public in 2018 raised less money than they had hoped for - partly due to global market jitters and partly because investors pushed back against lofty valuations - which will drive follow-on capital raising.Huya will price its follow-on offering after New York markets close on Tuesday.Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and Jefferies are joint bookrunners for the deal. (Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Christopher Cushing)(Reuters) - British online fashion retailer ASOS reported an 87 percent drop in first-half pretax profit on Wednesday, hurt by poor trading in the run-up to Christmas and logistical hiccups as it entered the U.S. market. Yet the company, whose affordable on-trend garments have made it a hit with young buyers and made it one of Britain's most successful online retailers, stuck to its guidance for sales, profit margins and capital expenditure for the full year.Shares in the company were boosted by the reassurance and traded up 13 percent at 35.66 pounds by 1000 GMT, though still well below their 41.86 pounds level before a shock profit warning in mid December.ASOS, whose current offers feature one-shoulder mini dresses for 25 pounds ($33) and jumpsuits for 40.50 pounds, was one of the first purely online clothing retailers in the UK.It is now facing cut-throat competition from new players like Boohoo and Missguided, targeting teens who shop with their phones and share fashion shots on social media. Changing consumer habits have led to heavy discounting in the fashion sector as shoppers use the Internet to compare prices. Meanwhile, uncertainty over Britain's exit from the European Union has dampened consumer demand in ASOS's domestic market, which accounts for around one third of sales."It's certainly been a challenging six months for us and one of the most challenging we've seen in many years," Chief Executive Officer Nick Beighton told analysts at a presentation."Economic uncertainty has undermined consumer confidence and during the period we saw exceptional levels of discounting."In addition to wider sector problems, ASOS's new U.S. warehouse struggled to cope with demand, adding to challenges in France and Germany where sales were weak. The U.S. accounts for around 12 percent of sales. "ASOS is capable of a lot more," said Beighton.TECH PLATFORMS The company, which sells brands ranging from Abercromie and Fitch to Superdry as well as its own collections like its ASOS Design label, is investing heavily in technology platforms and infrastructure such as warehouses and distribution centres. It has nearly doubled staff levels at its U.S. warehouse in Atlanta, ASOS said on Wednesday, and all U.S. orders were being fulfilled locally rather than through Britain, allowing the retailer to restore its service delivery promise.While pretax profit for the six months through February fell to 4 million pounds, ASOS maintained full-year guidance for 15 percent sales growth and a 2 percent profit margin at the level of earnings before interest and tax (EBIT).John Stevenson, analyst at Peel Hunt who rates the stock "buy", said he expected an accelerating sales performance over the second half and into 2020, with the U.S. warehouse on stream and actions to improve the European offer well progressed."Given the scale of the global opportunity for ASOS, the current share price weakness remains a clear buying opportunity for longer-term investors,” Stevenson added. But some analysts took a negative view."We see medium-term margin recovery as unlikely for ASOS, as industry fragmentation, more promotional activity and new consumer habits are driving underlying margin pressure," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch in a research note, rating the stock "underperform". (Reporting by Sonya Dowsett in Madrid; Editing by Paul Day and David Holmes)___Scam ads promoting fake tax breaks prosper on FacebookNEW YORK (AP) — Hundreds of ads have been running on Facebook for more than a year promising that governors across the country had signed off on big tax breaks for U.S. homeowners who wanted to install new solar energy panels. Problem is, the tax incentives didn't exist. Experts say these kinds of ads show how easily misinformation festers online and raises questions about whether big tech companies are really capable of policing their own ads.___May: UK to seek further Brexit delay, try to break logjamLONDON (AP) — Prime Minister Theresa May says that she will seek to further delay Britain's exit from the European Union and seek to make an accord with the political opposition in a bid to break the Brexit impasse. May has made the announcement after the EU's chief negotiator warned that a chaotic and costly Brexit was likely in just 10 days unless Britain snapped out of the political crisis that has paralyzed the government and Parliament.___Delta, AmEx renew credit card deal; Delta boosts outlookNEW YORK (AP) — American Express and Delta Air Lines are extending their credit card partnership through 2029, a significant extension of one of the larger financial partnerships between a major U.S. airline and a credit card company. Delta also raised its outlook for first-quarter profit, helping to lift its shares and the shares of other airlines.___Lyft's stock slump signals beginning of bumpy rideNEW YORK (AP) — When Lyft made its hotly anticipated debut on the public market, its stock jumped 21% to $87.24 a share, up from its offering price of $72. Flash forward two days later and its stock has fallen below the IPO price and languished at around $68 in what has become the beginning of a bumpy ride for the ride-hailing company.___High prices, interest rates push 1Q US auto sales down 2%DETROIT (AP) — Automobile sales in the U.S. fell 2% in the first quarter, another sign the nation's economy is starting to slow. Automakers sold just over 4 million vehicles from January through March, and industry analysts blame the decline on rising vehicle prices, competition from an abundant supply of late-model used vehicles and relatively high interest rates. Weak car sales, harsh winter weather and the partial government shutdown also had an impact.___Walgreens lowers 2019 expectations after 2Q forecast missWalgreens slashed its 2019 forecast and missed second-quarter expectations with a performance that sent its shares plunging Tuesday and helped knock down the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Company leaders told analysts that challenges they had been expecting like reimbursement cuts and lower price increases for branded drugs hit Walgreens much sooner than they anticipated.___World trade forecasts slashed again amid US-China standoffGENEVA (AP) — The World Trade Organization has cut its forecast for trade growth this year by more than a percentage point, to 2.6%, due to an economic slowdown and amid a trade conflict between the United States and China. The Geneva-based trade body expects an uptick in trade growth by volume to 3% next year.___Senate committee to investigate FAA safety inspectorsWASHINGTON (AP) — A Senate committee is investigating whether some FAA safety inspectors were poorly trained or lacked proper credentials for their work. The committee chairman says the investigation is based on complaints from multiple whistleblowers. Some of the inspectors might have helped develop pilot-training requirements for the Boeing 737 Max, the plane that has been involved in 2 deadly crashes within 5 months.___Pioneering legal pot states aim to ease rules on industrySEATTLE (AP) — When Washington and Colorado launched their pioneering recreational marijuana industries in the face of federal prohibition, they imposed strict rules in hopes of keeping the U.S. Justice Department at bay. Five years later, lawmakers are on the verge of easing the rules at the behest of businesses who say Washington and Colorado's industries risk falling behind. There are now 10 states that have legalized the adult use of marijuana, and many have taken a more permissive approach.___Texas company cited in past by EPAHOUSTON (AP) — The company that owns a Texas chemical plant where fire broke out has had environmental violations in the past. In 2016, KMCO's corporate agents pleaded guilty to a federal criminal charge of violating the Clean Air Act.___US stock indexes cap listless trading day with mixed finishNEW YORK (AP) — A day of listless trading on Wall Street ended with an uneven finish for stock indexes as the market lost some of its momentum after a three-day winning streak. After a brief early slide, U.S. stocks mostly wavered between small gains and losses through the rest of the day, as gains for some big technology companies were offset by losses in other sectors. The S&P 500 eked out a tiny gain, good enough to extend the benchmark index's winning streak into a fourth day. Small-company stocks fell.___The S&P 500 index edged up 0.05 of a point, or less than 0.1%, to 2,867.24. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 79.29 points, or 0.3%, to 26,179.13. The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.78 points, or 0.3%, to 7,848.69. The Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks gave up 2.74 points, or 0.2%, to 1,553.32.SAN FRANCISCO — When Jennifer Tejada, chief executive of PagerDuty, decided to take the software company public, she wanted to avoid this week. The stock market closes on Good Friday, and many people are on spring break. She had also feared being drowned out by a horde of other tech initial public offerings.“I remember saying, ‘I hope we don’t get run over by the ‘unicorn’ stampede,’” she said, using the term for private companies valued at more than $1 billion.Pinterest, a digital pin board company that is also going public, wanted to beat Friday’s holiday, according to a person familiar with the situation. It wound up scheduling its I.P.O. for Thursday — the same day that Zoom, a video conferencing company, will list its shares.And Lyft and Uber, the ride-hailing companies, decided to leave breathing room between their I.P.O. filings so as not to run into each other, said two people familiar with the deliberations, who were not authorized to speak publicly. When Lyft filed first, Uber gave itself a 30-day cushion before revealing its own prospectus last week.The maneuvering is the result of what promises to be a blockbuster year for tech public offerings. With a glut of prominent start-ups coming to market all at once, the companies, their bankers and the stock exchanges face a conundrum: Who goes when?I.P.O.s are generally a crowning moment that validate years of work. So companies approach the day as something more than a financial transaction — it is also a coming-out party, a branding event and a celebration. And it is a time when the companies do not want to share the spotlight.“Most of these companies have been private for 10-plus years, and it’s a huge moment,” said Nelson Griggs, president of the Nasdaq Stock Exchange, who oversees new listings. “Having their own day is important.”The investment banks that manage the I.P.O.s have been working to space out prominent offerings by a few weeks so companies don’t step on one another’s toes, according to three bankers, who requested anonymity to discuss confidential client matters.The biggest concern has been steering clear of the week that Uber goes public, they said. Its market debut next month is expected to be the largest since 2014, and the company has told some of its investors that its stock sale might value it at up to $100 billion. That would leave little attention for any other company.Many companies that plan to list their shares this year are racing to do so in the first six months, to sidestep any potential economic or market downturn. In January, they had to put their I.P.O. plans on ice for a time because the partial government shutdown affected the Securities and Exchange Commission, the agency that reviews public offering prospectuses.Yet even if the stock market and economy remain strong, excitement over I.P.O.s is likely to fade as the year goes on, especially with so many listings on the docket.“There could end up being I.P.O. fatigue because it is going to be overwhelming,” said Barrett Daniels, a partner at Deloitte who focuses on I.P.O. advisory work.If all of the large private tech companies that might be candidates for offerings went to market, they could issue over $100 billion in new stock, said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, which tracks I.P.O. data. That would surpass 2000, the peak of the dot-com era, when companies raised $96 billion.So much new stock could prove difficult for the market to absorb. “I do think there’s going to be some potential indigestion,” Ms. Smith said.Mr. Daniels of Deloitte said, “We’ve never seen so much money be requested in a single year.” He added, “We’re in uncharted waters.”Josh King, vice president for communications at the New York Stock Exchange, said it was capable of handling multiple I.P.O.s and had twice hosted seven on the same day. There is only one finite resource that the exchange must manage for all of the offerings flooding into the market: the opening and closing bell ceremonies, when companies ring in and close out the day’s trading. Still, plenty of slots are available, he said.Many companies use the bell-ringing ceremonies as a branding moment. When Lyft went public last month on the Nasdaq stock exchange, its top two executives, Logan Green and John Zimmer, rang the opening bell from a newly opened support center for its drivers in Los Angeles. Pink confetti rained down, and the celebratory image was instantly memorialized.PagerDuty, which is based in San Francisco and makes software that helps companies respond to complaints and other incidents, was founded in 2009. It became a unicorn, valued at $1.3 billion by private investors, in 2018. On Thursday, it went public on the New York Stock Exchange.PagerDuty did not want to miss the opportunity to stand out on its first day of trading, so it brought Pagey, a smiling, bug-eyed, neon green cardboard-and-felt company mascot, to the New York Stock Exchange’s trading floor. Pagey frolicked around and photo-bombed CNBC interviews with Ms. Tejada.Transporting Pagey across the country from its home in San Francisco was not easy. The bulky mascot suit couldn’t be flat-packed into a FedEx box. Ms. Tejada said PagerDuty’s executives had contemplated buying Pagey a plane ticket.“We held our breath a few times when we didn’t know if he-she-they would make it on time,” Ms. Tejada said. (Pagey has no gender.) But she was determined to get the mascot to the trading floor to help show off PagerDuty’s lighthearted company culture. The company eventually packed Pagey in a customized box and shipped it via courier.In the end, Ms. Tejada’s concerns about being overshadowed by other tech offerings were moot. PagerDuty’s stock soared nearly 60 percent on its first day of trading.The company picked the right date for its listing. Minutes after the market closed that day, Uber unveiled its I.P.O. prospectus — and attention immediately shifted.In the never-ending tug-of-war between growth and value investing, growth has lately been the strong-armed winner.This year, through the first quarter, for example, the Russell 1000 Growth Index returned over 15 percent, again better than the also excellent return of just over 11 percent for the Russell 1000 Value Index. And growth outperformed value for seven of the 10 years from 2009 through 2018.Until the last decade, however, value stocks often outperformed growth, leading some proponents of the value style of investing to hope for a return to dominance. But there is no assurance that such a shift will happen soon.Growth and value have specific meanings in the stock market: Value investing favors stocks that look cheap using metrics like the price-to-earnings and price-to-book ratios. Growth investing, on the other hand, favors stocks with higher than average annual increases in revenue and earnings.After months of rising stock prices, growth shares have become relatively expensive but not outrageously so, Jeremy Zirin, head of Equities Americas at UBS Global Wealth Management, said. They carried a price-to-earnings premium of 47 percent over value stocks at the end of March. That’s high, he said, but nowhere near the 100 percent premium that prevailed just before the stock market declines of 2000 and 2001. “We’re not at the stage where growth is grossly overvalued, “ he said.Investors can express their own growth or value preference through a wide range of exchange-traded funds. These include the Invesco QQQ E.T.F. and the iShares Russell 1000 Value E.T.F. (Exchange-traded funds are a form of mutual fund that is priced all day on stock exchanges, unlike traditional mutual funds, which are priced only once daily, after the exchanges close.)Tech stocks like Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google, the so-called Faang stocks, are in the growth category. Despite a brutal stretch in late 2018, these stocks have been big stock market winners in the last several years.“The major tech companies have outstripped expectations,” said John Rekenthaler, vice president for research at Morningstar. “Earnings have maxed or exceeded expectations.”Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research, has been emphasizing growth stocks but says: “My contrary instincts suggest we may want to overvalue value relative to growth.”One reason is concern about the strength of the global economy. “Generally, value has outperformed whenever there is anxiety about whether the economy can continue to grow,” he said.Value stocks typically come from industries where investors and analysts see problems; that’s why the stocks are relatively cheap. The question is whether the problems are real or overblown, and whether future price gains are likely. Currently, banks and other financial institutions, and oil and gas companies, make up a large part of the value stock universe.Judd Peters, one of the managers of the Hotchkis and Wiley Small Cap Diversified Value fund, sees promise in both sectors. Banks will become more profitable when longer-term interest rates rise, increasing revenue when banks lend money, he said. “We’re at an historically low moment in terms of long-term interest rates,” he said. One of the fund’s holdings is First Hawaiian Bank, the largest Hawaiian bank, which closed the first quarter at what Mr. Peters called a “very attractive” valuation of roughly 12 times current earnings.Mr. Peters also says the valuations of many energy companies are unreasonably low because oil prices dropped as technological advances increased the supply of oil from shale. “Our view is production increases for U.S. shale producers cannot continue to grow fast enough to keep up with global demand growth,” he said. Mr. Peters said many shale producers have already exploited the best opportunities and are digging at “secondary sites that are more expensive.”On the other hand, fund managers who favor growth investing can point to their recent performance records. Dan Davidowitz, for example, is manager of the Polen Growth fund, which returned an annualized 16.22 percent in the five years through March 29, according to Morningstar.Mr. Davidowitz says he looks for companies that can increase revenue and earnings and beat the overall stock market. He is not dissuaded by high share prices, he says, because they “can be overcome with excellent earnings growth, especially where there is a big competitive advantage.”Still, the high prices of growth stocks shouldn’t be disregarded, some analysts say.“The gap between high-priced and low-priced stocks has been rising for many years,” said Paul Quinsee, the global head of equities at JP Morgan Asset Management. At this point, he said, the price-to-earnings premium for growth stocks is greater than it has been 94 percent of the time over the last 25 years.“This should give investors pause,” he said, though it’s possible that this extreme level of pricing will persist.Mr. Rekenthaler expects that value stocks will again outperform growth stocks eventually. “If I had to bet, I’d bet on value stocks for the next 10 years,” he said. But, he said, because there’s no guarantee that he is right, investing in value stocks requires considerable patience.STOCKHOLM — Swedish tech unicorn Klarna is nearing the point where it could seek a stock market listing, but it's unlikely to be this year, the CEO and co-founder of the fast-growing online payments services firm said.Founded in 2005 and backed by investors such as Sequoia Capital, Atomico, Visa and Permira, Klarna has fueled expectations in financial markets that it could go public since it doubled down on growth last year after securing a Swedish banking license and announcing plans to expand into new countries in 2019."We have not taken a formal decision of listing, but Klarna is approaching a situation where I think we are more ready to list the company," CEO Sebastian Siemiatkowski told Reuters in a recent interview."If, I, a couple of years ago thought that it was too early and had fewer advantages than disadvantages, my picture now is that the company is in another maturity phase and I see that there may be advantages for us to be able to pursue the strategy we want."Payments firms have been involved in some of the biggest global deals recently, including Fidelity National Information Services's $35 billion purchase of Worldpay, while Italy's Nexi is due to list in what will be Europe's biggest IPO so far this year.Klarna, valued at more than $2 billion when fashion chain H&M bought a stake last year, grew revenues by 31 percent to 5.45 billion crowns ($588 million) in 2018, while operating profit fell to 161 million crowns from 524 million.Siemiatkowski declined to speculate on the timing of a possible float, but said there were no immediate plans and that 2019 was probably too soon.Shares in Dutch payments processor Adyen have almost tripled from their IPO price of 240 euros ($270) last year.Siemiatkowski said that as well as growing market interest in payments companies, there were practical reasons for a listing."There are increasing administrative costs for not being listed and still having so many owners and being such a big company as we are," he said. A listing would also provide marketing benefits, he added.Klarna has 2,500 employees and is one of Europe's so-called tech unicorns - a start-up with a valuation of more than $1 billion. Last month it said it planned a larger external fundraising round later this year. Having just closed its latest funding round of 1 billion crowns to support expansion, the company plans to expand from 14 markets currently - Germany and Sweden are its biggest - though not to China. "People refer to the U.S market as extremely competitive but in my world it cannot compare to the Chinese one. There is much more to do in markets that are not as competitive," Siemiatkowski said.($1 = 9.2663 Swedish crowns) (Reporting by Helena Soderpalm; editing by Niklas Pollard and Susan Fenton)Good Sunday morning, and welcome to a special edition of the DealBook Briefing, where we’ll take a deep dive into Pinterest’s upcoming public offering. It’s the second of many decacorns — $10 billion-plus start-ups — to go public this year. And it could be an indicator of what’s to come during the rest of 2019. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)A barometer for I.P.O.s to comeWhat is investors’ appetite for fast-growing, highly valued start-ups that are burning cash?Many of the world’s most prominent tech start-ups are about to find out. Lyft has already listed, Uber will head to market in May, and Slack and Postmates are expected to follow soon.The next test comes this week with Pinterest. The digital pin board company plans to sell shares to investors and make its public market debut in the coming days.This is a slightly different breed of unicorn. Pinterest is burning less cash than some of the other big names going public this year, like Lyft and Uber. And it expects to price its I.P.O. below its last private market valuation. Lyft has struggled since its market debut last month. Its shares are trading 17 percent below the offering price.So is that a Lyft thing, or a tech I.P.O. thing? If Pinterest can avoid a Lyft-style early wave of selling, it may ease concerns for the companies expected to follow. Here’s your cheat sheet for the offering.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Stephen Grocer in New York and edited by Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________How Pinterest’s business stacks upThe company grew out of Cold Brew Labs, a tech incubator founded in 2008 by Ben Silbermann, who became Pinterest’s chief executive, along with Evan Sharp and Paul Sciarra. It calls itself “a productivity tool for planning your dreams” — to you and me, it’s a web service that lets you save images to virtual pinboards.Here’s how it sizes up today:Pinterest has taken a low-key approach, rejecting Silicon Valley’s typical unicorn formula of moving fast, breaking things and chasing growth at all costs.That has spared it the controversies about disinformation and harmful content that have engulfed peers like Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter.But it has grown steadily over the last two years, particularly as people outside the United States have begun to gravitate to its service.It had 265 million monthly active users in the fourth quarter of 2018, according to the company. That’s compared with 216 million in the fourth quarter of 2017.Its plan for the offeringPinterest will list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker “PINS.”It hopes to be valued at $11.3 billion including stock options and restricted stock. It plans to sell 86.3 million shares, including the additional shares allotted to the underwriters, at a price between $15 and $17 a piece. At the top of that range, the company would raise $1.5 billion.That’s below the $12 billion valuation that private investors and venture capital firms placed on the company in 2015 and 2017.If Pinterest does go public below its last private market valuation, it would not be the first highly valued start-up to do so recently. Box, a cloud storage company, and Square, a payments company, both did it, and both now trade above those private valuations.But Pinterest could price higher if investor demand has proved robust during its roadshow.Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Allen & Company are underwriting the offering. In all, Pinterest will have 12 underwriters.A look at Pinterest’s booksPinterest is the rare unicorn preparing to go public this year that is not hemorrhaging cash at an alarming rate.Pinterest lost $63 million in 2018. That put it far closer to making a profit than the previous year, when it lost $130 million.While it is unprofitable, its losses are far lower than those of other well-known start-ups like Uber and Lyft.And it’s growing quickly. The company’s revenue, which came from advertising, totaled $756 million last year, up 60 percent from a year earlier.It listed a cash stockpile of $628 million.Pinterest’s plan for keeping controlAfter going public, the company will have two classes of stock: class A shares, which carry one vote each, and class B shares, which carry 20 votes. Pinterest’s founders, top executives, employees, big investors and directors will be given class B shares; new investors will get class A shares.The holders of the class B stock will have 99.2 percent of the voting power after the I.P.O. Pinterest’s three founders will control about 23 percent of the voting power. Bessemer Venture Partners will have the most control of any single investor, with 13 percent of the voting power. Pinterest acknowledges in its I.P.O. prospectus that this will limit investors’ ability to influence it.Such share structures have grown in popularity in Silicon Valley. Lyft also went public with a dual-class share structure; its two founders now own roughly 5 percent of the stock, but control of nearly 49 percent of the voting power. Facebook, Google and Snap have all famously used dual-class structures, too.But the practice is increasingly controversial among governance experts. And Kobi Kastiel and Lucian Bebchuk from Harvard Law School have warned that the dual-class structure may “significantly decrease the economic value of Pinterest’s low-voting shares.”What can go wrong?The risk factor section of any I.P.O. prospectus acts as a warning label for investors. Pinterest’s is no different — here’s a rundown of what it thinks can go wrong.Advertising: “The failure to attract new advertisers, the loss of advertisers or a reduction in how much they spend could harm our business,” Pinterest writes.Security: “If our security is compromised, or Pinners or advertisers believe our security has been compromised, Pinners and advertisers may use our service less or may stop using our service altogether.”Infrastructure: “We depend on Amazon Web Services for the vast majority of our compute, storage, data transfer and other services. Any disruption of, degradation in or interference with our use of Amazon Web Services could negatively affect our operations.”Regulation: “We receive, process, store, use and share data, some of which contains personal information, which subjects us to complex and evolving governmental regulation.” It adds that it “may be liable as a result of content or information that is published or made available on our service.”Rivals: Because Pinterest makes money from online advertising, it acknowledges that it is a competitor to big names like Facebook, Instagram, Amazon, Google, Twitter and Snap. It also sees websites like the recipe repository Allrecipes, the home improvement website Houzz and the cookery site Tastemade as rivals.Who’s going to get rich?For Pinterest’s current shareholders and employees, as well as the private market investors who have poured around $1.5 billion into the company, the I.P.O. could provide a windfall. Here’s a rundown of who stands to gain:Mr. Silbermann would hold a stake worth $878 million at the high end of the offering. Mr. Sciarra and Mr. Sharp, his fellow co-founders, will hold stakes worth $721 million and $161 million. Bessemer Venture Partners will be Pinterest’s largest shareholder, with a stake worth about $1 billion. FirstMark and Andreessen Horowitz are the next two biggest venture capital investors with holdings of $755 million and $740 million.Fidelity and Valiant Capital Management will hold stakes of $549 million and $460 million.What everyone’s saying about the I.P.O.Pinterest is “taking some of the hype out of the I.P.O. process” by initially pricing its I.P.O. below its last private market valuation, Gina Chon of Breakingviews argues. That, she says, could help it argue that its “conservative approach puts the long-term interests of both the company and its investors first.”On the other hand, Pinterest’s “guarded approach may be risky,” Laura Forman of Heard on the Street writes. Since 2014, just 13 U.S. tech companies have priced their I.P.O. below their last private market valuation, she says, and “the 10 of those with publicly available financing data that have traded for a full 12 months lost 19.2 percent of their value on average in their first year.”“Is it good enough to grow at 60 percent a year?” Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion asks. “Under normal circumstances, this kind of company would be a must-have for investors,” she adds, but with investors also considering growth-focused companies like Lyft and Uber, Pinterest could experience “cooler demand from investors.”And finally, its elevator pitchAn I.P.O. prospectus often features an idealistic, sometimes corny, letter from the company’s founders about their vision for the firm. Pinterest’s might make non-Silicon Valley types squirm a little, but it also takes a not-so-subtle dig at other social networks:“Pinterest is designed to inspire. Pinners tell us they love how they feel on Pinterest: optimistic, confident and inspired. We work hard to keep the enemies of inspiration — comparison, cynicism, judgment — off of Pinterest.”“Pinterest is personal. Not social. Pinterest isn’t about your friends or celebrities, it is about you. There are many tools to connect people, but there are few that help you connect with yourself.”“Pinterest is made for real world action. Most ideas on Pinterest can be made, bought, tried or visited. Our end goal isn’t for you to browse images and videos all day. We want you to eventually make the ideas you see a part of your life.”Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Three of the first quarter’s top-performing mutual funds won big by favoring small- and midcap growth stocks, toting up quarterly returns of 25 percent or more.The Virtus Zevenbergen Innovative Growth Stock Fund buys shares of companies of all sizes — its largest holding lately has been Amazon — but its big winners, so far this year, have been smaller fare such as WayFair, an online seller of home furnishings, and the Trade Desk, an online advertising marketplace.Nancy A. Zevenbergen, the fund’s lead manager, said her interest in growth stocks dates to the ’80s. She worked then in the trust department of a Seattle bank and followed — and was fascinated by — the 1986 initial public stock sale of a homegrown outfit named Microsoft. (Microsoft is based in the Seattle suburb of Redmond, Wash.) A year later, she started Zevenbergen Capital Investments in Seattle. Her mutual fund began in 2004.Being on the West Coast has proved an advantage, she said. Not only has Seattle birthed tech giants like Microsoft and Amazon, but “Silicon Valley is a day trip for us,” she said.Throughout her career, she has sought stocks she thinks can keep increasing revenue by at least 15 percent a year. Her mantra is: “Revenue growth, revenue growth, revenue growth,” she said.Favorite holdings can stay in the fund for years: Mercadolibre, an Argentine e-commerce outfit, has been there for a decade. That stock was lately one of only 31 in the fund, compared with 157 for the average actively managed United States stock fund tracked by Morningstar.Ms. Zevenbergen says she prefers companies that are run by their founders. As an example, she pointed to Microsoft. The stock soared while one of the founders, Bill Gates, steered the company but languished under his successor, Steven A. Ballmer. What’s more, boards of directors are typically not as patient with outsider C.E.O.s, and long-term investments require patience, she said.Her liking for founder-led outfits is part of the reason her fund has owned Tesla, the electric-car maker led by Elon Musk, since its 2010 initial public stock offering. Despite Tesla’s recent operational problems, she said: “Elon Musk is doing things people said couldn’t be done — and he’s up against an old, established industry and organized labor.”Ms. Zevenbergen added: “You can often get a C.E.O. with an M.B.A. from Harvard, but do they have the passion to run the business that the founder had?”The Virtus Zevenbergen fund, whose A shares have a net expense ratio of 1.25 percent, returned 25.24 percent in the first quarter, compared with a total return of 13.65 percent for the S&P 500 stock index.Alger SMid Cap Focus FundMatthew A. Weatherbie, one of the managers of the Alger SMid Cap Focus Fund, has been chasing growth stocks even longer than Ms. Zevenbergen. His investment career began in the ’70s, and he ran Putnam Voyager, then a well-known fund, starting in 1983. He left Putnam to start his own investment company in 1995, and he has managed the Alger fund since 2017. (Alger Associates acquired Mr. Weatherbie’s company in 2017.)Like Ms. Zevenbergen, he said his investment philosophy has remained consistent. “There have been some tweaks over time, but the basic process is the same,” he said. He and his co-managers seek companies in a growth sweet spot, he said. “They’ve been in business long enough to survive the perils of infancy, but they’ve got a long runway of growth ahead of them.”Holdings also must have “a competitive moat around the business, a strong balance sheet, high inherent profitability and a high-quality management team,” he said.To assemble the portfolio, the fund’s managers and analysts collaborate to identify 50 holdings that meet these criteria. Mr. Weatherbie and his co-portfolio managers — H. George Dai and Joshua D. Bennett — next take an unusual step.They divide the portfolio into three baskets. The managers then independently evaluate the 50 stocks, each determining the portion of the fund’s assets dedicated to each stock in his basket. As a result, the fund’s largest stakes are the stocks most favored by all three.“Why is Chegg or FirstService a top five holding?” Mr. Weatherbie asked. “Because each of us has determined that those are high-conviction names.”Chegg is an education-services company, while FirstService is a property manager and service provider for condos and cooperatives.Mr. Bennett said both companies exemplify something the managers hunt for: They’re fast growers in “mundane markets” not associated with zippy stocks in the way, say, consumer electronics and online entertainment are. Mr. Weatherbie added: “Our process enables us to identify hidden gems in mundane industries.”The Alger fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 1.33 percent, returned 30.58 percent in the first quarter.Lord Abbett Developing Growth FundF. Thomas O’Halloran, the lead manager of the Lord Abbett Developing Growth Fund, seeks companies that show both disruption and momentum. For example, he has won lately with such well-known names as Yeti Holdings, the maker of insulated cups and coolers, and Roku, the video streaming outfit.These companies are disrupting their industries, he says, and their shares have lately trended upward.Take Roku and its streaming devices, which compete with ones sold by such tech behemoths as Apple and Amazon. “It’s not that one form of streaming is better than another,” Mr. O’Halloran said. “It’s that streaming is better than cable and regular TV, and Roku is the only Swiss-neutral platform.” Other devices are interwoven with technologies or business models peddled by their sellers.Mr. O’Halloran said he often finds promising picks among consumer stocks for the simple reason that consumer purchases drive growth in the United States. “That’s where 70 percent of spending in U.S. economy is,” he said.When considering what to wager on, Mr. O’Halloran said, he prefers companies with hefty potential markets — like Yeti. “The whole planet likes its food and beverages at the right temperature,” he said.He differs from some portfolio managers in that he bars members of his analyst team from writing reports on the companies they follow, relying instead on quick emails and frequent meetings. Churning out reports can lead to delays and self-defeating behavior, he said. “By the time you get a report done, a quarter to half of the stock move may be over. And when the stock peaks, you don’t want to let it go, because you wrote the big report on it.”Mr. O’Halloran’s fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 0.93 percent, returned 27.13 percent in the first quarter.It’s time to see the numbers. Investors are about to get a read on the health of corporate America, as businesses begin releasing quarterly profit reports and laying out expectations for the coming year.The results may resolve a roaring debate on Wall Street that has pitted economists, who have argued that the economy remains healthy, against investors, who pushed stocks to the brink of a bear market over concerns that growth is waning. “As we hear from more companies about how the year ended, we’ll get more color on which side has a better feel, the economics community or the equity community,” said Lori Calvasina, head of United States equity strategy at RBC Capital Markets. On the whole, the numbers are expected to be solid. Analysts estimate that, when all the results are in for S&P 500 companies, fourth-quarter profits will have risen 15 percent over a year earlier. That would be the fifth-straight period of double-digit profit growth, according to I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv. It doesn’t guarantee investors will be happy. The last round of results, which began to arrive in October, showed even faster growth but did little to stem the stock market’s rapid sell-off at the end of the year.That’s in part because Wall Street is looking ahead: how factors like a global slowdown and rising interest rates will affect future profits. Next week will bring results from banks including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, as well as companies like Delta and Netflix. On Thursday, cautionary statements from Macy’s and American Airlines weighed on their shares and those of other department stores and airlines.Here are some of the questions investors will be seeking answers to as they weigh whether they went too far with the sell-off. Will China’s slump hurt America’s businesses?For much of 2018, investors were surprisingly willing to shrug off risks posed by the trade war that erupted between China and the United States, the world’s two largest economies.But as the dispute has dragged on, and stretched from its original focus on America’s yawning trade deficit with China to seemingly intractable questions over technological and geopolitical dominance, it’s starting to take a toll.China’s economy is showing signs of weakness, and that’s bad news for companies that count the country as a major market. Apple recently slashed its sales forecast for the first time in 16 years, citing weak sales of iPhones in China, where the economy is growing at its slowest pace in a decade. The South Korean giant Samsung — a huge producer of both smartphones and semiconductors — similarly cut its profit outlook, citing weak global growth. And the impact isn’t limited to tech. Ford, FedEx, Starbucks and Tiffany have all noted weakness in China as a risk in recent months.Furthermore, it isn’t just China. The slowdown is rippling through other economies. Germany’s industrial engine, which exports high-end autos and industrial equipment to China, is sputtering and dragging on European growth, and Japan’s economy — the world’s third largest — contracted in the third quarter. What’s the mood of American consumers?For companies that aren’t heavily exposed to foreign markets, the outlook for domestic consumption, which accounts for roughly two-thirds of America’s economic activity, is what matters. On that front, the news is still mostly good.Last year consumer sentiment measures showed Americans to be largely inured to a noisy political and economic climate. There are good reasons this resilience could continue. Wages are rising, gas prices have fallen, and Americans who stand to benefit from the Trump administration’s tax overhaul could start to see higher tax refunds roll in over the coming months. “It’s tough to again have a recession when consumers are getting more money from tax refunds and oil prices are lower,” said Keith Parker, head of United States equity strategy at UBS. Companies have confirmed that view. In its earnings report last month, Darden Restaurants, the parent company of Olive Garden, noted that consumers were splurging, adding to their entrees and “buying up.” “Right now, we think the consumer is in a really good place,” Eugene Lee, Darden’s chief executive, said on a conference call after the company’s earnings release. Still, stock market moves typically lead consumer sentiment, meaning December’s sharp sell-off could take some of the fizz out of the mood of American shoppers. Even after a recovery in the early days of 2019, the S&P 500 remains more than 10 percent below its September peak. The federal shutdown could also dampen spirits. Previous episodes of government dysfunction, such as the 2011 fight over raising the debt ceiling and the 2013 government shutdown, were associated with sharp drops in consumer confidence. What’s the impact of rising wages and other costs?For large employers, rising wages will cut into profits unless they find a way to get customers to pay higher prices. A plan by Amazon to pay a $15 hourly wage to its 250,000 employees in the United States — as well as roughly 100,000 seasonal workers — is expected to take a significant chunk out of its profits. In November, TJX Companies, the parent of retailers like Marshalls, T.J. Maxx and HomeGoods,  all of which appeal to consumers because they keep prices low, also offered cautious guidance for the fourth quarter in the face of rising labor and shipping costs.Wages aren’t the only things rising. Increasing commodity prices, transportation costs and interest rates are typical conundrums for corporations in latter stages of an economic expansion. The emergence of those pressures on corporate profits is one reason investors have grown increasingly worried about stocks.Will executives sit on their hands? Executives don’t mind paying more for wages, raw materials and shipping if sales keep rising as the economy continues to grow. But if the outlook darkens, executives will be quick to snap their wallets shut. The American economy still looks strong. More than 300,000 jobs were created in December. Unemployment remains below 4 percent. Through the third quarter, the economy was on track for its best annual performance since 2005. Still, uncertainty about what’s to come could dissuade some decision-makers from pulling the trigger on new investments in real estate, plants and equipment. Such capital spending is crucial to keeping the economic expansion on track, making any broad pause in spending a potential pitfall for growth. There are signs that the outlook is becoming increasingly murky. While reporting earnings on Wednesday, the homebuilder Lennar said it couldn’t offer investors a forecast for 2019 because of “continued softness and uncertainty” in the housing market, which has been squeezed by rising mortgage rates. Such comments, as well as any mentions of plans to delay production or expansion plans, will be of intense interest to investors this earnings season both for the individual companies involved and for the possible impact of those decisions on the American economy. “That could itself lead to a future slowdown,” said Maneesh Deshpande, head of United States equity strategy at Barclays.ATLANTA — Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, said Friday that low inflation would allow the Fed to be “patient” in deciding whether to continue raising interest rates, a message welcomed by jittery investors.The Fed is confronting an increasingly uncertain economic outlook. Falling stock prices, weakening global growth and concerns about President Trump’s economic policies have set investors on edge and prompted warnings that the economic expansion is nearing its end. But measures of domestic economic activity remain strong, including Friday’s report the economy added 312,000 jobs in December.Mr. Powell’s message on Friday was that the Fed can afford to watch and wait. He said the best available evidence suggested that the economy was still in good shape. But he also was at pains to reassure investors unsettled by his confident tone at his last news conference, in mid-December. He said that the Fed was watching for evidence of weakness, and that the health of the economy would ultimately determine the course of policy.“With the muted inflation readings that we’ve seen coming in, we will be patient as we watch to see how the economy evolves,” Mr. Powell said. The Fed predicted in December that it would raise rates twice in 2019, but Mr. Powell said the central bank was ready to change course “significantly if necessary.”The stock market, driven down on Thursday by concerns about growth, surged on Friday on the strength of the jobs data, and then kept climbing as Mr. Powell spoke. Investors who are worried about the growing economic impact of a trade war with China also hoped for progress toward a resolution when the Trump administration and Chinese officials hold meetings next week.The S&P 500 rose 84.05 points to close at 2,531.94; the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose 0.11 points to close at 2.668 percent.[Read more: The jobs data, and signs of flexibility at the Fed, helped stocks soar on Friday.]Mr. Powell also defended the Fed’s autonomy on Friday in the face of sharp attacks by Mr. Trump, who has complained to aides that the Fed’s rate increases would undermine economic growth and “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the president during the Great Depression’s early years.Some of Mr. Trump’s economic advisers, alarmed by his inquiries as to whether he has the power to fire Mr. Powell, want to arrange a meeting between the two men. Mr. Powell, under questioning by Neil Irwin, an economics writer at The New York Times, said that he was open to meeting with Mr. Trump, as Fed chairs have done with past presidents, but that no meeting had been scheduled.He also said the Fed would make policy without regard to Mr. Trump’s views. “I want the public to be assured that we have a strong culture, it’s not a fragile one, it’s not being disrupted,” he said.Asked if he would resign if Mr. Trump asked him to do so, Mr. Powell replied directly: “No.”Mr. Powell was joined onstage at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association by his immediate predecessors at the Fed, Janet L. Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke. Both of them criticized Mr. Trump’s attacks as potentially damaging to the central bank, and therefore to the economy.Strong economic growth fueled the Fed’s decision to raise its benchmark rate four times in 2018, into a range from 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent. The rate, which had hovered near zero in the wake of the financial crisis a decade earlier, now sits at the lower end of the range that Fed officials consider a reasonable estimate of “neutrality,” meaning that the central bank is neither encouraging nor discouraging economic growth.Fed officials say the continued strength of the economy validates their management of monetary policy. “I think we’re actually in a good spot,” Loretta Mester, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, told CNBC on Friday, noting that job growth is strong and inflation is under control.But critics, including Mr. Trump, have said the economy still needs the Fed’s help. Inflation remains below the 2 percent annual pace the Fed regards as optimal, suggesting that the economy has room to grow, and workers are only beginning to reap the benefits of an expansion now in its 10th year.Clouds also are gathering on the economic horizon. The Trump administration increased economic growth last year through large tax cuts and increased federal spending, but those benefits are waning. And Mr. Trump’s trade war with China is beginning to be felt by American companies, like Apple and FedEx, which have warned that the tit-for-tat tariffs are pinching profits. The Fed’s decision to raise the benchmark rate at its most recent meeting, in mid-December, drove down stock prices and bond yields in a show of concern about the prospects for continued economic growth. Asset prices imply an expectation that the Fed will not raise interest rates at all during 2019.Mr. Powell began his remarks by reiterating his view that the markets’ concerns are overstated. He said that 2018 had been “a good year for the United States economy” and that the latest economic data suggested “ongoing momentum heading into 2019.” Wall Street’s pessimism, he said, is “well ahead of the data.”But the Fed chairman offered a different kind of relief to financial markets by emphasizing that the slow pace of inflation allows the Fed to postpone judgments about the resilience of the economic expansion.Inflation was 1.8 percent during the 12 months that ended in November, the most recent available data. It is likely that inflation remained soft in December, marking the seventh straight year that prices rose by less than 2 percent.And inflation would have been even weaker but for the impact of Mr. Trump’s tariffs, according to a study published Friday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mr. Trump has repeatedly argued that the cost of the tariffs, which are taxes on imported goods, is being absorbed by Chinese exporters. But the study found that American consumers were paying a hefty price. The authors estimated that the tariffs added about 0.3 percentage points to the Consumer Price Index last year.Job growth has remained strong, and wage growth has increased in recent months, but Mr. Powell said the Fed was on guard against rising prices, not rising wages. He said the strength of the labor market “does not raise concerns about too high inflation.”Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase, said Mr. Powell’s remarks convinced him that the Fed would move more slowly in 2019. Mr. Feroli previously predicted three rate increases in 2019; he said he now expected the Fed to raise rates twice, in July and December.“Powell’s message was unmistakable,” Mr. Feroli wrote in a note to clients.Mr. Powell also sought to ease concerns in financial markets about the Fed’s gradual reduction of its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, which it bought in large quantities during the financial crisis to help bolster the economy. Some analysts have argued that the Fed’s retreat is exacerbating the current volatility in financial markets.Mr. Powell said that the Fed disagreed but, returning to his theme for the day, that it was watching closely and willing to change its mind.“If we ever came to the conclusion that any aspect of our plans was somehow interfering with our attainment of our statutory goals, we wouldn’t hesitate to change it,” he said.A year ago, in the wake of President Trump’s tax cut, euphoric investors pushed the Dow Jones industrial average past 25,000, a record. The Dow had just gained 25 percent in 2017, and the Nasdaq had leapt 28 percent. Volatility was so low that there wasn’t a single day in 2017 when the S&P 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent.Not everyone was celebrating.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” James Stack, president of InvesTech Research, told me a year ago. “And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”Mr. Stack turned out to be right. He lowered his recommended asset allocation for United States stocks from 82 percent last January to 72 percent in September, when stocks hit new all-time highs. He urged investors to raise cash in October, and at the end of November he recommended an even more defensive posture — including putting money in a fund whose value would rise when stock prices dropped. That brought his recommended net exposure to stocks to just 55 percent, the lowest since the depths of the last bear market in early 2009.Stocks plunged in December, posting their worst monthly loss since the financial crisis and the worst December since 1931 and the Great Depression.Yet most economic indicators are benign. Unemployment is an exceptionally low 3.7 percent. Wages are rising. Inflation remains below the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent target. The Fed raised rates a quarter point in December, citing “a very healthy economy.”Given Mr. Stack’s track record last year, I reached out to him this week for his current views. Even though valuations have come down and macroeconomic indicators “have remained remarkably strong,” he said, he’s still defensive and hasn’t changed his bearish allocation. He believes that the worst isn’t over and that the Dow and S&P 500 will soon be down 20 percent from their peaks, retreating into a bear market. (The Nasdaq Composite and the Wilshire 2000 index of small-cap stocks are already there.)And that was before a revenue warning from Apple sent markets into another steep fall on Thursday.“A lesson from history is that the market leads the economy by a lot longer than investors realize,” Mr. Stack said. If the economy is headed toward recession, as the latest stock market declines suggest it may be, “we won’t see the first economic warning signs until the first three to five months” of 2019. Among the leading indicators he’s watching for signs of weakness are consumer confidence, housing starts and unemployment claims.On Thursday, the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index, a leading indicator of industrial activity, fell sharply. That suggests that “serious cracks” are starting to appear in the economy, Mr. Stack said.Mr. Stack is right that bear markets typically precede recessions by many months: CNBC calculated in 2016 that bear markets since World War II had begun on average about eight months before a recession. That means that if a bear market did begin after major indexes peaked last fall, a recession might not start until June or even later. Even then, recessions are often over before economic data confirms their existence.That’s when bear markets are, in fact, followed by recessions, which often isn’t the case. As the economist Paul Samuelson famously said, “The stock market has forecast nine of the last five recessions.”Since World War II, there have been 13 bear markets. They were followed within a year by a recession just seven times. As a predictor of recessions with just 54 percent accuracy, bear markets are little better than flipping a coin.Indeed, Mr. Stack’s data show that two or more down years in a row are quite rare: There have been only four instances since 1928, suggesting that stocks may well be in positive territory by the end of 2019, even if a bear market does materialize in the meantime.Which is one reason the Wharton economist Jeremy Siegel told me that he’s bullish on the stock market this year. He predicts it could rise between 5 percent and 15 percent, even if there is an economic slowdown.Stocks are much cheaper now than they were before the December sell-off. The ratio between stock prices and projected earnings for companies in the S&P 500 is about 17, down from over 19 a year ago and the lowest in the past five years.[Stocks rose Friday after the release of a strong December jobs report and comments by the chairman of the Federal Reserve that the central bank would be flexible on raising interest rates this year.]Mr. Stack, however, argued that in the event of an economic downturn — or even a significant slowdown — “those projected earnings will go out the window.”“I would not call today’s market undervalued,” he added.Mr. Siegel bases his forecast of a market rally on the belief that the Fed will stop raising short-term interest rates. “I think the Fed got the message from the markets that it should not have hiked in December,” he said.Mr. Stack, too, said he was surprised the Fed raised rates in December. “I think the Fed will stand down and put future rate increases on hold,” he said, “which could stabilize the market, at least for the time being.”But Mr. Stack’s technical indicators are still pointing toward a bear market. He’s also worried about the shaky housing market, with price drops and slowing sales showing up in major cities.“We’re not trying to time the market, but we’re very comfortable with our defensive allocation,” he said. Although he predicted higher volatility a year ago, he was nonetheless surprised by the extremes reached in December, without even “a single hard warning sign of recession on the horizon.”“Can you imagine,” he asked, “how volatile it will be when we do have those warnings?”A blockbuster jobs report and reassuring comments from the Federal Reserve chairman reminded investors Friday to relish, at least for now, the economy’s undeniable strengths.Markets reacted buoyantly, after lurching for weeks over a faltering outlook at home and signs of a global slowdown.The Labor Department report showed one of the strongest months of job gains in the last decade, with employers adding 312,000 to payrolls in December. Wages, which had been lagging until recently, showed impressive gains.Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chief, cheered the report, while offering assurances that policymakers would not move quickly to raise interest rates. Investors had been concerned that additional rate increases would weigh on growth. “2018, by so many measures, was a good year for the United States economy,” he said at an economic conference in Atlanta.He also sought to ease concerns about the stability of the central bank. When asked whether he would resign if President Trump asked him to, Mr. Powell simply said, “No.”Wall Street’s enthusiastic response to the jobs numbers was magnified by Mr. Powell’s comments. The S&P 500 index closed up more than 3 percent.“It’s an unequivocally phenomenal report all the way around,” said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. “Anyone that finds something negative in this report is simply cherry picking.”Economists offered raves that could appear on a movie poster or a book jacket — “Extraordinary!” “Blowout,” “Wow!” The figures, they said, offer a resounding response to the question of whether a recession is imminent: “Never mind!” said David Berson, chief economist of Nationwide. “The fears of the economy tipping into a recession now have clearly been overstated.”Mr. Trump welcomed the stellar showing in televised remarks delivered in the White House Rose Garden. “312,000 jobs was a tremendous number and obviously having a big impact on the stock market today,” he said, adding that the pickup in wage growth was “beautiful to watch.”But the latest report comes in the context of flashing yellow lights elsewhere, which Mr. Powell acknowledged on Friday. There is an unresolved trade war with China, a nation already contending with an economic downturn that could dampen global demand. In the United States, there is a slump in the housing sector, with hints that the auto industry could be next.This week, Apple cut its revenue forecast for the first time in 16 years, citing flagging iPhone sales in China. Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on CNN that Apple would not be the only victim of tensions with Beijing.“There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China,” Mr. Hassett said.And on Thursday, the Institute for Supply Management released a survey showing the biggest drop in manufacturing activity since 2008. Many manufacturers blamed rising costs related to tariffs. (The index reading of 54.1 still showed an economy in expansion.) Measures of consumer confidence have also weakened recently.The stock market has been in the midst of its worst decline since the financial crisis.“We’re listening sensitively to the messages markets are sending,” Mr. Powell said Friday. But investors, he said, “are way ahead of the data.”Indeed, economists insist that there is more to celebrate than to fret over. In recent months, the unemployment rate has been hovering near a 50-year nadir. (The jobless rate rose last month, to 3.9 percent, but largely because new workers barreled into the labor force, suggesting that companies are luring stragglers back.) Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, indicating confidence in their ability to find jobs.Wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to pick up more quickly. December’s year-over-year increase hit 3.2 percent, tying October for the biggest surge since 2009. The recovery has gone on for so long that it has finally begun to benefit the lowest-paid workers, who have seen the biggest pay gains.The competition for employees has become excruciating for people like Michael Haith, the chief executive of Teriyaki Madness, a fast-casual Japanese food chain. The restaurant needs to staff 50 new locations next year, which means hiring up to 1,000 workers. That’s not an easy feat in “a brutal market” for employers, Mr. Haith said.He vies for workers with big brands like Burger King. Rival businesses have sent recruiters into Teriyaki Madness stores to poach his employees with offers of higher salaries. In Colorado, where the chain is based, he’s also fending off marijuana farmers, who pay trimmers up to $17 an hour.“Good employees can pretty much go wherever they want,” Mr. Haith said. “It’s really an arms race.” His shops have increased wages by $1 or $2 an hour in the last year, just to keep up. He’s not alone. Food-service workers nationwide got particularly big pay bumps last year, according to the latest federal data.Moves like that are part of what made 2018 “a banner year for the labor market,” said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the employment site ZipRecruiter. And the 99-month streak of job gains could get even longer. There are still Americans who do not have jobs or are not clocking as many hours as they would like. The share of people who have part-time positions but would prefer to work full time is higher today than it was in 2007.And a far smaller share of the American population is working today than before the recession. That decline is partly because of the aging of the baby boom generation. But even among people in their prime working years, employment is down from before the recession, and far below its peak at the height of the dot-com boom.“We are not yet at maximum employment,” Ms. Pollak said.Over all, employers added more jobs in 2018 than they did in 2017, at a monthly average of 220,000. But last year was unique, because Congress passed a big corporate tax cut that essentially bathed a sizzling economy in lighter fluid.“People got used to these eye-popping job-growth numbers,” said Martha Gimbel, director of research for the job-search site Indeed. Even if hiring slows in the coming months, she said, “it doesn’t mean that anything’s wrong, it just means we are heading back to normal.”But investors have to weigh that interpretation — that the economy is peacefully drifting toward less exciting times — against the possibility that it is reeling toward calamity. It hasn’t helped their mood (or Mr. Trump’s) that the Fed decided to raise its target lending rate four times in 2018.And even Friday’s stellar jobs numbers come with caveats. Each month’s figures are revised twice, and provide snapshots of the past, not the future. December’s report does not account for workers furloughed during the government shutdown, which began after last month’s surveys were conducted.Wall Street, of course, has the potential to create the bad news it seems to be anticipating. Concern over withering retirement funds could prompt Americans to tamp down on spending. And business owners might start to pull back on investments. That unholy feedback loop can begin to chip away at economic growth.“When market sentiment has gotten this negative, investors aren’t going to take one single data point and say: ‘Oh, we were wrong! Things are just fine,’” Ms. Zentner said. She added that people might hesitate to put their full faith in the forecasts of economists. “Look how right we were leading up to the financial crisis.”HONG KONG — With the Chinese economy beginning the new year on a decidedly downbeat note, Beijing’s leaders are injecting more than $200 billion into its financial system to ease lending.The People’s Bank of China on Friday said it would cut the amount of cash that banks must hold as reserves by one percentage point. The move will essentially free up 1.5 trillion Chinese renminbi, or about $218 billion, for an economy experiencing weaker factory output and consumer confidence while it weathers a trade war with the United States.The cut is not unusual for China’s central bank, but it comes amid uncertainty about how Beijing will manage slower growth. China’s slowdown has contributed to shaky global financial markets. On Wednesday, underscoring the broad impact, Apple unexpectedly cut its sales forecast for its latest quarter, citing disappointing iPhone sales in China, once one of its most vibrant markets.Chinese officials pledged last month to step up support of the economy, and they are facing new urgency, said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist for Capital Economics, a research firm. Retail and auto sales are down, and China’s latest manufacturing data showed factory activity shrank in December. While monthly data released on Friday showed improvement in China’s services sector, the overall picture has become more concerning.“The consistently downbeat tone of the data released since then will only have underlined the strains the economy is facing,” Mr. Williams said.This month, China will report economic growth figures for the last three months of 2018. While China’s headline growth figure is widely seen as unreliable, it dipped in the third quarter to 6.5 percent, its lowest level of expansion since the aftermath of the global financial crisis.The move by the central bank on Friday appeared to be part of a coordinated effort. Earlier in the day, Li Keqiang, the country’s premier, said China would move to shore up the economy through measures that included cutting bank reserve requirement ratios and lowering taxes.The central bank said it would cut its reserve requirement ratio — a measure of how much cash from deposits that lenders need to keep — by half a percentage point on Jan. 15 and another half a percentage point by Jan. 25.The move will give banks more leeway to lend money, though analysts noted the net amount of money flowing into the system would be roughly half the $218 billion headline figure, as the central bank shuts off other sources of funds. It also comes roughly a month before China’s Lunar New Year holiday, when Chinese households sometimes strain the monetary system by spending more and by giving cash as gifts.China has traditionally used its state-controlled banking system to flood the economy with money when growth slows. Last year, China cut the reserve ratio four times. But economists, small businesses and many others say the mechanism shovels money into big, inefficient companies or into investment bubbles instead of toward the smaller entrepreneurs who need it more.The cut “will be good for curbing the economic downturn and solving the financing difficulties of enterprises,” said Yu Yongding, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.“But this is just one policy,” Mr. Yu added, saying it risks pouring money into real estate and the stock market, which would do little to solve the economy’s problems. “We need a lot of other policies to cooperate.”For several weeks, economists and analysts have speculated that officials could move to push a hefty stimulus package that would give the flagging economy a shot in the arm. But such bold moves have become increasingly difficult for the Chinese government, which is contending with a huge debt load accumulated over the last decade to spur growth.Still, many analysts took the move as a sign that China’s leader would be proactive in heading off any worsening slump.“The central bank has made it clear that this wasn’t ‘releasing the floodwaters’ by providing a huge stimulus comparable to that introduced in 2009, but it is clear that they are redoubling efforts to stabilize the economy and the currency,” Geoffrey Yu, the head of the British investment office of the Swiss bank UBS, said in an email.“This swift action supports our view that there won’t be a sharp deceleration in the Chinese economy this year and that fears of a major global slowdown are overdone,” Mr. Yu added.Millions of investors will receive year-end statements from their brokerages and retirement plan managers in the coming weeks, and the great majority of them will have unpleasant news: losses.The S&P 500 finished the year down 6.2 percent, with the steepest declines recorded in the fourth quarter. With Apple’s announcement of disappointing sales in China on Wednesday, the bad times for stocks continued in the first week of the new year. While most economic data has remained strong, there are some rumblings that 2019 may be quite a bit rougher than 2018. Corporate executives are becoming more pessimistic, according to surveys, and Americans are conducting Google searches for the word “recession” at the highest rate since the last one just ended in 2009.If it all makes you want to flee — or at least shift your 401(k) into cash — that’s understandable. It’s also a bad idea.The sensible response to this unnerving series of developments is to do pretty much anything else. Read a book. Go for a walk. Take up knitting. Or just do nothing at all, like take a nap. If you are a long-term investor (and any money you have tied up in the stock market should be intended for the long term to begin with), tumult like that of the last few months isn’t something that should cause panic. Rather, it’s the price you pay for enjoying returns that, over long time horizons, are likely to be substantially higher than those for cash or bonds.That’s true if this episode turns out to be a false alarm for the overall economy, as is a distinct possibility. But it’s also true even if this does turn out to be the start of a prolonged period of economic and market distress — especially if you are still in the phase of your life of contributing to a retirement plan or otherwise accumulating savings.ImageNapping at a brokerage office in Beijing in October.CreditJason Lee/ReutersThe recent pessimistic tone in markets is getting way ahead of the evidence. Nothing so far in either the economic data or the market indicators that most reliably predict economic swings suggests there will be anything worse than a modest slowdown in economic growth in 2019.Businesses are still expanding and adding jobs. The yield on two-year Treasury bonds has fallen in the last three months, but it would have fallen a lot more if the bond market — which tends to be closely tied to the direction of the overall economy — had been predicting an imminent recession.Moreover, an investor who moved money into cash now would be doing so just as the valuation of stocks was becoming more favorable — buying high and selling low, not the way great fortunes are made. That’s especially true when you factor in the drop in longer-term interest rates, which makes shares particularly appealing relative to bonds.In early November, investing $100 in stocks would buy you about $4.64 worth of corporate earnings, versus the $3.21 in interest you would could receive by investing in 10-year Treasury bonds. Now, stocks offer $5.25, while bonds offer only $2.61.But most important, even if the economic road ahead really is as bumpy as some in markets seem to fear, you’re probably not going to be successful at timing those swings just right.Of course, if you had a perfect ability to predict how far the market would fall and when it would bottom out, it would make sense to move money in and out. You do not.There is a wide range of evidence that people are pitiful at timing the market. Even supposed investment experts lack that prescience. Even if you turned out to be right about a continuing tumble in 2019, the great risk would be that whenever the rebound began, you would be caught out of position, unable to take advantage.Suppose you were clever enough to recognize at the start of December 2007 that a major recession was about to take place, and you moved your money out of stocks.Yes, you would have saved yourself from steep losses in 2008 and early 2009. But you have to ask yourself: Would I have also had the courage to put money back in while the economy was still in horrendous shape in 2009, with double-digit unemployment and a banking system in tatters?If not then, when would you have moved money back in? People who simply left their savings fully invested in the stock market in December 2007 have now made a 134 percent return on that money. Would you have done better than that, or would you have missed out on a big chunk of those gains out of the same caution that led you to pull money out of stocks to begin with?People who did not panic in the fall of 2008 — the most panic-worthy time in most of our lifetimes — and kept putting their retirement funds into stocks did indeed incur steep losses over the ensuing months. But their newly invested funds were being put into stocks at the most favorable valuations in a generation, and thus enjoyed the full benefit of the rebound when it eventually came. A truism of economic and financial cycles is that by the time it feels like the coast is clear and putting money into riskier investments is completely safe, the real money has already been made. People who looked at the economic chaos of early 2009 and stuck to their guns have ended up far better off than those who, convinced that a double-dip downturn was imminent, waited for years to get in.This equation changes, of course, if we’re talking about money needed imminently as opposed to longer-term savings, such as for retirement. The economy looks stable now, but that could change — it’s still possible that markets and C.E.O.s know something about the future that isn’t clear in the data yet.But that’s more of a fundamental argument about how your assets should be allocated. If an 18 percent drop in stocks is enough to cause you to change your entire investment strategy, that money shouldn’t have been in stocks to begin with.The entire point of investing in stocks is that you get greater long-term expected returns in exchange for tolerating bigger ups and downs. Episodes like those of the last few weeks are, in effect, the price you pay for returns that are substantially higher than bonds or cash over longer periods. Just as there are no free lunches, there are no excess returns without some volatility and risk.As individual investors, we cannot control volatility. What we can control is our own mind-set and reaction, and the more level your head, the better your long-term results are likely to be.HONG KONG — For years, no matter what was happening elsewhere, global companies bet billions upon billions of dollars that China’s consumers would keep spending money.Now, just when the world economy could use their financial firepower, they are holding back, worried about the country’s slowing growth, a trade war with the United States and  rising amounts of personal debt.Zhao Zheng, 26, is among the cost-conscious consumers.On Thursday, Mr. Zhao, a real estate agent, was browsing smartphones made by Xiaomi, a Chinese rival to Apple that prices its handsets at a fraction of what the American tech giant charges for iPhones. He said the success in China of Xiaomi and Miniso, a chain of low-cost variety stores, suggested that Chinese consumers were looking to get more for their money.“The economy,” Mr. Zhao said, “is definitely very bad.”A significant pullback could have a big impact on a world looking for engines of growth, on companies that counted on China’s continuing expansion and on global investors who have long viewed Chinese consumers as a steady source of profits.Stock markets stumbled again on Thursday, in part over concerns that American companies and manufacturers are starting to feel the effects from the slowdown in China and the trade war. The S&P 500 sank 2.5 percent, while shares of Apple dropped nearly 10 percent after the company unexpectedly slashed its financial forecast, citing disappointing iPhones sales in the country.The rise of the Chinese consumer is not over yet, and Apple’s disappointing numbers stem in part from the company’s own decisions. But the weakness at Apple followed reams of other data — declining car sales, faltering retail sales, a slumping property market, a tougher job market — that signal Chinese consumers may be losing their once unshakable confidence.The sagging confidence could undermine China’s efforts to redirect its economy and spur growth.The Chinese government hopes consumers will become a greater source of economic growth as the country’s longtime reliance on government-sponsored infrastructure projects and old-line industries like steel and cement pays ever-smaller dividends. In recent years, Beijing has rolled out a huge social safety net, tax breaks and other incentives to get people to spend more of their own money on the trappings of middle-class life.The spending slowdown in China could be a worrying sign for many of America’s biggest companies, too, at a time when their profits and stock prices are under pressure.Greater China — a region that includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan — is Apple’s third-largest market after the United States and Europe, accounting for $52 billion in annual sales in the company’s most recent fiscal year. General Motors, through local joint ventures, sells more cars in China than it does in the United States. Eight percent of Procter & Gamble’s total sales in 2017 came from Greater China.Other companies are also feeling the pinch. China’s auto market, the biggest in the world, saw sales fall during the first 11 months of last year. Sales of all smartphones fell by 13 percent in the third quarter of 2018.Chinese consumers continued to spend relatively briskly during other recent slowdowns, and they could still help get the country’s economy back on track. But they have reasons to be reticent now.By many measures, the country’s growth has slowed because of government efforts to wean the economy off a heavy reliance on borrowing as well as other policies that have shaken the confidence of the country’s entrepreneurs.“China is at a turning point in its economy,” said Andrew Collier, the founder of research firm Orient Capital Research. “They’ve basically been on a debt-fueled binge for a decade.” He added, “It’s difficult to turn the ship from industry to consumer at a time of rough waters.”For many people, circumstances have changed.China has too many apartments that home buyers do not want, depressing a property market that is the largest source of wealth for Chinese households. The stock market lost around a quarter of its value in 2018.And although they  have a long way to go to catch up to Americans, Chinese households are laboring under growing amounts of debt. Unorthodox Chinese lenders like the online shadow-banking networks known as peer-to-peer lenders are stumbling, giving consumers fewer places to borrow more.Declining business confidence, rising labor costs and the trade war with the United States also appear to be hurting the job market.China does not disclose reliable unemployment data. But a recent survey by Mr. Collier of job postings, recruitment ads, numbers of applicants on recruitment websites and interviews with corporate managers suggested labor demand had weakened significantly. Hiring demand in import and export industries has been hit especially hard, falling 53 percent in the third quarter compared with a year earlier, the survey found.Against that backdrop, it is not surprising that many consumers are looking for ways to spend less.Wang Xiaochuan, who made about $145,000 a year as a pharmaceutical sales representative in Yantai in 2015, now makes less than a third of that thanks to a tightening of regulations on the drug industry. He has cut back his spending, buying Clarks shoes instead of the more expensive Ecco brand, or Coach goods rather than Louis Vuitton.“I’m hearing a lot more bad news about the economy than good news now,” he said.In a country with an aspirational culture that for decades has encouraged people to get rich, Apple has long held a special place. Having a new iPhone meant its owner had made it. Seven years ago, the release of a new iPhone set off scuffles in front of an Apple store in Beijing.But price increases have put the iPhone beyond the reach of more and more Chinese buyers. An iPhone XR starts at 6,499 yuan, or about $950, just over two and a half months’ worth of disposable income for the average Chinese person.Rumors once circulated about young people selling kidneys to buy an iPhone. Now, the online joke goes, it would cost two kidneys.On the last day of 2018, William Tan, a 30-year-old university teacher in the southern city of Nanning, replaced his iPhone 7 with a phone made by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. Although the Huawei phone cost more than $700, about a month’s salary for him, it was still more than $200 cheaper than the base iPhone XR. He had used an iPhone 5, 6 and 7. But when his iPhone 7 broke down, he found he could no longer afford the latest iPhone.The Huawei phone, he said, works fairly smoothly and takes better photos than the iPhone.“I won’t choose Apple again at this price range,” he said.Chinese consumers are by no means done with certain discretionary purchases. Spending on movie tickets and services remains strong, economists said.But the consumer slowdown could worsen if Beijing does not address its economic problems.“The question is whether China can stabilize economic growth when it is facing economic headwinds,” said Wei Li, senior China economist at Standard Chartered.“If the labor market does worsen in 2019 or if financial conditions don’t improve, if the stock market remains low, all this could weigh on consumer confidence,” Mr. Li said.Given the uncertainty, many Chinese spenders will most likely continue to scrimp.Wu Yan, a tech company worker who was looking at Xiaomi phones on Thursday afternoon, said he had also tried Apple and Huawei phones and had decided they were not much different from one another. What matters, he said, was the apps, and they work the same from phone to phone.But Mr. Wu, 40, also said many middle-class Chinese people like him had reached a stage where their work was stable, their income was secure and they no longer needed to show off their spending power. His computer at home? It’s four or five years old now, but it still works fine.“Now we spend just to fulfill our needs,” he said.Maybe the markets were not overreacting.With the United States economy posting solid numbers last year, the alarming signals coming out of stock and bond markets seemed out of whack with the real world. President Trump’s bellicose trade actions were a concern, but hiring was strong and corporate earnings were surging.But this week, companies have issued warnings about the health of their businesses that suggest investors were right to be worried about growth. On Wednesday, Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years, citing weak iPhone sales in China. On Thursday, Delta Air Lines said its fare revenue, while growing, would fall short of the company’s earlier forecast. And the American manufacturing sector slowed sharply last month, according to a closely watched index released Thursday.In the coming weeks, scores of companies will report their fourth-quarter results. A senior White House economics official acknowledged that there could be a torrent of bad news from corporate America.“It’s not going to be just Apple,” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told CNN on Thursday. “There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China.”He seemed to suggest that was not necessarily bad, because it could help the Trump administration achieve its goal of getting China to make trade concessions to the United States.Those comments did little to assuage the fears of investors. The S&P 500 stock index closed down about 2.5 percent, leaving it more than 16 percent below the high it hit in September. But perhaps the most notable move was in the market for government bonds, where investors park their money in times of stress or when they expect the economy to slow. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to 2.56 percent, well below the level it reached in early November, when investors were more optimistic about the economy.“On days like today people say, ‘Crud, I’ve got to buy tons of bonds,’” said Jim Vogel, a fixed income strategist at FTN Financial. “That’s driven by a large change in sentiment.”Important indicators still show the American economy is growing at a decent clip. A measure of employment in the private sector in December, released Thursday, was higher than expected. And ahead of the Labor Department’s monthly jobs report on Friday, analysts estimated that employers added about 180,000 jobs in December.Despite this, companies and consumers are facing challenges that could make them more cautious about spending money. If they pull back, the economy will suffer. Apple’s warning provides strong evidence that the trade tensions with China are taking a toll. And if more indicators show the American economy stumbling, investors will become more convinced that the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate increases are dampening activity.Corporate profits — and stock prices — are highly sensitive to global economic weakness. Foreign sales accounted for 45 percent of the revenues of companies in the S&P 500 stock index over the last five years.There are signs of Mr. Trump’s policies beginning to weigh on domestic demand, too. The Institute for Supply Management said Thursday that its index of manufacturing activity fell sharply in December, the largest one-month drop since the last recession.The manufacturing index fell to what is still considered a healthy level, consistent with other data generally showing that the economy remains in good shape. But the downward trend contributed to a growing sense of unease on Wall Street about how soon the current expansion might end.“When it has seeped into the survey it probably means it’s three to five weeks old,” Mr. Vogel said.Indeed, investors are so convinced trouble is coming that they are betting the Federal Reserve will abandon its plans to raise interest rates in 2019.Fed officials predicted in mid-December that the central bank would raise its benchmark rate twice this year, moving the rate into a “neutral” range that neither stimulates nor discourages economic activity. By the end of trading Thursday, the odds of an interest-rate cut in 2019 had climbed above 50 percent.Robert Kaplan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, reinforced those expectations, telling Bloomberg Television that the Fed should wait at least a few months before considering any additional increases.“We shouldn’t be taking any further action until some of these uncertainties resolve themselves, and I think that could take several months,” he said on Thursday.Mr. Kaplan, however, is not a voting member of the Fed’s policymaking committee this year. The committee comprises the Fed’s board of governors and a rotating selection of five of the 12 presidents of regional reserve banks.An indication of the Fed’s views could come Friday morning, when the Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, is scheduled to answer questions at a public appearance with his two immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke.“There’s a belief he’s willing to back off, but we haven’t seen that yet,” Mark Haefele, global chief investment officer at UBS Wealth Management, said, referring to Mr. Powell. “If the Fed hikes rates in March, it’ll be a mess.”And on Thursday an ominous event occurred in the government bond market. The yield on the 5-year Treasury note fell below that of the 3-month Treasury bill. Yields are generally higher on longer-term debt. An inversion of that pattern signals a loss of confidence in longer-term economic prospects and has often served as an early warning of a recession.Investors and corporate executives have experience with slowdowns in large overseas economies, but they have not had to simultaneously grapple with the effects of a trade war. In explaining Apple’s lowered sales forecast, the company’s chief executive, Tim Cook, said, “The economic environment in China has been further impacted by rising trade tensions with the United States.” Apple’s stock plunged nearly 10 percent on Thursday, taking its market value down to around $675 billion, well below the $1.1 trillion it reached as recently as October.Mr. Trump’s tariffs have raised prices on a wide range of Chinese components used by American manufacturers. Roughly half of the companies in the I.S.M. survey said tariffs were weighing on profits, or raising costs.Linton Crystal Technologies, a firm based in Rochester, makes specialized furnaces used to grow silicon tubes, which are cut into wafers for semiconductors and solar panels that are sold to customers all over the world. The work was once performed entirely in the United States. But even though they are still designed, assembled and customized in the United States, the machines’ components now are built in China.Mr. Trump has said the goal of his trade policies was to convince companies like Linton to bring back jobs from China. Mr. Hassett emphasized on Thursday that the Trump administration expected the domestic economy to remain strong, and that companies focused on the United States would benefit.But Todd Barnum, Linton Crystal’s chief operating officer, said the cost of making furnaces entirely in the United States was prohibitive. And as a result of the tariffs, the company is also moving design work to China — a move Mr. Barnum said would save hundreds of thousands of dollars in tariffs by reducing the need for prototypes to be shipped to the United States.“Our customers don’t care if it was manufactured in the United States,” Mr. Barnum said. “They care about the highest quality at the lowest dollar.”Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The trade war didn’t seem to discourage Chinese companies from listing their shares on American exchanges last year. In fact, it might have brought more Chinese companies to Wall Street.Tencent Music’s trading debut on the New York Stock Exchange in December capped a wave of Chinese companies going public in the United States. In total, 33 Chinese firms raised $9.2 billion through initial public offerings on American exchanges — up 140 percent from 2017 and the highest level since 2014, according to Dealogic.Of course, 2014 comes with an asterisk of sorts. Alibaba went public in September that year, raising $25 billion. Subtract the value of Alibaba’s offering and Chinese firms raised just $3 billion that year.Last year, however, offerings from Chinese firms dominated the United States market for initial public offerings. The three largest I.P.O.s by market value were Chinese companies. And Chinese firms accounted for four of the 10 largest such offerings in 2018 ranked by amount raised on American exchanges, the most of any country, including the United States, according to Dealogic.Why list in America?American exchanges offer prestige and a broader investor base that Chinese entrepreneurs can find attractive. The United States also offers a quicker route to the public markets. While Chinese regulators have taken steps to reduce the long wait, it still takes 18 months or longer for shares to begin trading from the time a company files to go public. That compares with just 42 days to list in the United States, according to Dealogic.But the trade war may also have been a factor.A slowing Chinese economy and escalating trade tensions dragged down markets in Hong Kong and China before stocks in the United States turned seriously wobbly. At their lows in late October, the Hang Seng stock index and the benchmark stock indexes in Shenzhen and Shanghai were down 15 percent to 35 percent for the year. By comparison, the S & P 500 was still up 2.5 percent at that point, making it far more attractive for offerings.Stocks have staged a remarkable turnaround in the early days of 2019, rebounding after an end-of-the-year tailspin that was fomented by fears of recession in the United States.Three straight weeks of gains in the new year on Wall Street have erased nearly all of 2018’s losses. It’s the best start to a year since 1987.Even so, many factors behind last year’s troubling decline remain unresolved. American companies and consumers are less optimistic about the future, and large economies like Germany and China are signaling a global slowdown driven by the trade war. Britain is in turmoil over leaving the European Union. And a new concern, the longest federal government shutdown in history, also poses a risk to the domestic economy.A month ago, any one of those elements might have fueled a steep decline in stocks. In December, waves of panic-driven selling left the S&P 500 dangling almost 20 percent below its high. Now, it’s all being taken in stride.The difference is an abrupt change in tone from the Federal Reserve. This year began with repeated public assurances from Fed officials that they were sensitive to concerns about the economy and would be patient and flexible as they decided whether to raise interest rates.Investors were alarmed last year by the idea that the central bank was determined to keep raising rates, risking a recession. It wasn’t just Wall Street that worried. As stocks were sliding in December, President Trump, who boasted about stocks as they rose earlier in the year, became fixated on the Fed and its chairman, Jerome H. Powell. “The only problem our economy has is the Fed,” he wrote on Twitter on Dec. 24.“They’re trying their best to be a source of stability in markets,” said Samantha Azzarello, global market strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management. “What happened last year really shook people and their confidence in investing in equities.”The Fed has always held sway over the financial markets, but that influence tends to grow in the later stages of an expansion, when every interest rate increase is seen as the one that might trip up the economy.The United States economy is still strong: The unemployment rate is near 50-year lows, wages are starting to rise and growth in corporate profits remains robust. To the Fed, these are reasons to keep raising borrowing costs and stave off potential inflation. It did so four times in 2018.But after 10 years of economic growth, many investors are worried that a turning point is near, and that higher interest rates might bring on a slowdown faster than they expect. And the recent stock market gains may not stick without proof that corporate profits can keep growing.“We’re in a bit of a ‘show me’ moment for skeptical and uncertain investors,” said Kate Moore, chief equity strategist for BlackRock, the world’s largest investment firm. “It’s going to have to be backed up with earnings and the confidence that those earnings are going to be sustainable.”This past week, American companies began disclosing their sales and profits for the fourth quarter. With about 10 percent of companies in the S&P 500 posting results, the reports have been strong.After the S&P 500 rose 2.9 percent in the week through Friday, it is up 13.6 percent from its Dec. 24 low. The stock index ended trading on Friday just below its 2018 starting point.However, earnings reports reflect only what happened in the past. When it comes to how they will do in 2019, some large businesses have cautioned that they don’t have a clear view.Ford recently warned that the trade war and Britain’s impending exit from the European Union made it impossible to offer investors a forecast. The homebuilder Lennar did the same, blaming weakness and uncertainty in the housing market.Broad surveys of sentiment also suggest reason for worry. On Friday, the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to the lowest point of the Trump presidency and well below forecasters’ expectations. Earlier in the week, a report from the Fed showed that, through early January, executives and economists had become less optimistic for a host of reasons, including trade and political uncertainty and swings in the financial markets.The data in that report came before the government shutdown had stretched to nearly a month. Now the longest in United States history, the closing will start to take a toll. The latest estimates from the White House’s own Council of Economic Advisers suggest that the shutdown has already knocked almost half a percentage point off the economy’s growth rate, though that drag should end once the government reopens.The shutdown is affecting some large businesses already. On Tuesday, Delta Air Lines cautioned that reduced travel by government officials and contractors would hurt its sales growth, at a rate of about $25 million a month. JPMorgan Chase executives noted that if the Securities and Exchange Commission — currently closed except for emergency matters — was not able to give approvals for stock market share offerings, and mergers went unapproved by other government agencies, it could cut fee revenue for its investment banking operations.Profits at American companies may be hurt by the United States’ trade war with China. Evidence that it is slowing global growth mounted this past week, with Germany reporting its slowest annual growth rate since 2013 and China saying that exports fell last month.Companies in the S&P 500 generate 37 percent of their sales, on average, from markets outside the United States, according to the data provider FactSet, and businesses that have increased their exposure to global economies now look vulnerable.But for the most part, stock investors have shrugged off these concerns in January, now that they see the Fed as less eager to raise rates.The Fed had spooked investors as recently as Dec. 19, when it raised interest rates, and its chairman, Mr. Powell, said he didn’t see a need for the central bank to change the way it has been slowly selling off the bonds it bought to bolster the economy over the last decade. The stock market slid 6 percent in the days afterward.“Clearly the market was skittish about, primarily, the Fed,” said Alicia Levine, chief strategist at BNY Mellon Investment Management. “It sounded like the Fed was on autopilot.”By Jan. 4, Mr. Powell’s comments had a different tone. Speaking at a public panel discussion, he made a point of emphasizing the Fed’s ability to be patient with further interest rate increases, given that inflation remains low.“We’re listening with, you know, sensitively to the message that — that markets are sending,” Mr. Powell said. “And we’re going to be taking those downside risks into account as we make policy going forward.”Within days, other central bank officials repeated the sentiment, and the Fed published the details of its December meeting, which showed that many of its policymakers had already reached that conclusion. Stocks had already bounced off their Christmas Eve low when Mr. Powell spoke, but have gained 9.1 percent since.“Their commentary has really done a 180 in a really short period of time,” said David Giroux, chief investment officer of United States equity at asset manager T. Rowe Price.Over the last 30 years, investors have grown accustomed to looking to the Fed for help when the market found itself in a sticky spot. Some trace the phenomenon to the October 1987 market crash. The morning after stocks tumbled roughly 20 percent in a single day, the Fed, under the recently appointed Alan Greenspan, issued a statement indicating that it was ready to support the economic and financial system.Stocks rebounded sharply, helping to embed an expectation into the markets that continues today. And, in the past decade, as stocks have climbed in their longest run of gains ever, the Fed’s decisions to back away from plans to raise interest rates or withdraw economic stimulus have helped keep the bull market alive.Mr. Powell and the Fed seem to have done that again.“I think his comments on Jan. 4 were critical to getting excitement and willingness to invest back into the market,” Ms. Levine said.WASHINGTON — The government shutdown and a late-year slump in the stock market have eroded Americans’ optimism for the economy and support for President Trump’s economic policies, new surveys show.The decline in confidence is widespread — among Democrats and Republicans, high and low earners — and it suggests mounting danger for Mr. Trump and the economic expansion that he claims as a strong point of his presidency. Sustained drops in confidence often signal dampened consumer spending in the months ahead, and can be the precursor to broader economic downturns.On Friday, the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to the lowest point of the Trump presidency, well below forecasters’ expectations. Analysts attributed the drop largely to the partial government shutdown, which has entered its fifth week.Economic confidence also fell, across nearly all demographic groups, in a poll conducted this month for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey.“If you have that many people in the economy that are not getting paychecks, are not able to pay their rent, pay their mortgages, there’s going to be a broad macroeconomic impact,” said Kevin Stay, a 27-year-old survey respondent in Pittsburgh. “That’ll affect everything. It’ll ripple through the economy.”Business groups on Friday called on the president and Congress to reopen the government immediately.“The current shutdown — now the longest in American history — is causing significant and in some cases lasting damage to families, businesses and the economy as a whole,” the groups wrote in a letter posted on the website of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.The SurveyMonkey poll found that Americans remained relatively upbeat about their personal finances, particularly Democrats and independents, whose assessment of their family’s economic situation has brightened since the November elections. But a wide swath of respondents reported increasing worries about the economy over all.Nearly a third of respondents to the poll said the United States economy was worse off than it was a year earlier. That’s up from fewer than a quarter of respondents in January 2018. And respondents were nearly as likely to say the next five years will bring “periods of widespread unemployment or depression” as “continuous good times economically.” As recently as November, optimists outnumbered pessimists on that question by more than 10 percentage points.The Michigan survey found something similar: Respondents were still fairly positive about the current economy but were far more negative about the future.Mr. Stay works for a technology company and hasn’t suffered personally from the standoff between Mr. Trump and Democrats in Congress. But he said the shutdown had nonetheless made him more cautious. He recently moved home from Colorado and is living with family; he had intended to get his own apartment, but he has delayed those plans partly because of the uncertainty surrounding the shutdown.“You’re not going to go out and make a major purchase if you’re worried the economy’s about to take a major downturn,” Mr. Stay said. “I work in sales. My income is pretty directly tied to how the whole economy is doing.”By most conventional measures, the economy is still doing well. The unemployment rate is near a five-decade low, wage growth is accelerating, and overall economic growth in 2018 was on track to be the strongest since before the 2008-9 recession.But cracks had begun to show even before the shutdown idled hundreds of thousands of federal workers shortly before Christmas. The stock market dropped precipitously late in the year as investors became concerned about the effects of a trade war with China, among other factors, and the housing market has slowed. Many economists had already expected growth to slow in 2019 as the effects of the tax cuts that took effect last year begin to wane.Those fears seemed to have little effect on consumers, whose spending powered a strong holiday shopping season and fueled economic growth for much of last year. Any hints that consumers are growing jittery are worrisome, said Stephen Stanley, chief economist for Amherst Pierpont Securities.“The consumer’s really the star of the show right now, and if you were to see any signs of a break there, it would be significant,” Mr. Stanley said.Downturns in consumer sentiment don’t always translate into cutbacks in actual spending. And past shutdowns haven’t done lasting damage to either confidence or spending. Jim O’Sullivan, the chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research note that the Michigan index also fell in 2013, then bounced back quickly when the government reopened. But he cautioned that the current shutdown had already outlasted any previous one.Adding to the challenge for forecasters, the shutdown has stopped the release of much government economic data. The Commerce Department, for example, was scheduled to release retail sales figures for December e this week; that report has been put off indefinitely.“Disentangling what is temporary effects and what is the underlying trend becomes that much more difficult,” said Brett Ryan, an economist with Deutsche Bank in New York. “It just adds more uncertainty during a period when the market’s already skittish.”In the absence of much hard evidence, economists have been left guessing about the shutdown’s impact. White House economists this week doubled their estimate of the damage being inflicted. The Council of Economic Advisers said the shutdown would reduce quarterly economic growth by 0.13 percentage points for every week that it lasted as federal contractors lost out on work and government employees went without pay.Some analysts see even bigger potential effects: Deutsche Bank estimated on Thursday that in the worst case, the economy could contract in the first quarter because of an extended shutdown.Portions of the surveys offered a pointed political warning to Mr. Trump. In the span of a year of SurveyMonkey polling, the president has lost much of the approval he enjoyed with Americans on economic policy. Nearly as many respondents now say his policies are making the economy worse as say they are making the economy better. A year ago, Mr. Trump held a seven-percentage-point advantage on that question.As a retiree in Arizona, Pat Cafferata hasn’t felt the effects of the shutdown firsthand. And although she watches the markets with interest, she said she wasn’t too worried that an economic slowdown would force her to make a major change to her way of life.But she is worried about the people who are missing paychecks, and about the larger effects of a prolonged shutdown. She pointed to reports that past shutdowns ended up costing taxpayers more than keeping the government open.“That is such a waste of money in an era when we don’t have enough money to waste on things like that,” she said.A former advertising executive, Ms. Cafferata, 74, viewed the shutdown through a business lens.“Any government shutdown is a reflection of poor management,” she said. “You don’t run a business this way, and to run a country this way is just terrible.” Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The huge swings that defined stock trading in December have ended. That doesn’t mean investors think everything is fine.In the bond market, traders of government debt are still signaling concerns about the direction of the United States economy. Among the clearest of these signs is the yield curve.The yield curve essentially measures the difference between short-term and long-term government bonds. When investors are expecting economic growth, interest rates on long-term bonds like the 10-year Treasury note are usually higher than those on short-term debt. Why? Because under normal circumstances it is riskier to lend money out for 10 years than for, say, three months. (A lot can happen over the next decade that might keep your loan from being repaid, even by the government.)But when concerns about the economy mount, that relationship can reverse. Investors tend to turn to long-term government bonds as a safe place to park money, pushing down their yields, while eschewing shorter-term government debt, causing the rates on those securities to rise.In the worst case, when the rate on shorter-term bonds rises above that of longer-term ones, the yield curve is said to have inverted. And for the past 60 years, when that has happened for a sustained period, it has accurately predicted a recession.We’re not there yet, but the gap between the two rates has been moving steadily closer for two years as the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates.The trend accelerated late last year as investors began to worry about risks to the United States economy. On Jan. 3, the gap between the three-month Treasury bill and the 10-year note shrank to just 0.14 percentage points, its narrowest level since September 2007, according to Tradeweb. It had stood at 0.89 percentage points at the start of November.But a surprisingly strong jobs report on Jan. 4 and some soothing words from the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, have taken some of the panic out of the stock market. The S&P 500 is up 7.7 percent since Jan. 3 and has been notably more stable even in the face of bad news about global growth.Concerns in the bond market haven’t faded nearly as much, however. The spread between the 10-year note and three-month bills has widened since Jan. 3, but at about 0.34 percentage points on Thursday, is only back to where its was at the end of December.What might explain the concerns? Well, there’s still plenty of evidence that the global economy is slowing down. Just this week, China reported its biggest monthly decline in exports in more than two years, and Germany said its economy had grown last year at its slowest rate since 2013.And, of course, there’s the government shutdown. Typically the effect of a shutdown on the economy is short-lived. The longer the impasse goes on, however, the greater the chance that it can stall economic growth.For now, though, the bond market is not signaling a recession. It has not inverted for a sustained period, and a flattening yield curve is not a consistent predictor of a coming recession. Only 20 percent of the time has the economy contracted in the 12 months after the spread between short-term and long-term government bonds narrowed to its current level, according to data from James Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at the research firm Leuthold Group.The economic uncertainty that roiled the stock market at the end of 2018 hurt Citigroup’s trading business, the bank said on Monday, as a busy week of quarterly earnings reports by the country’s largest banks got off to a shaky start.Citi said it had almost a half-billion dollars less in revenue in the year’s fourth quarter than analysts had expected. The cause of the drop, the bank said, was an unexpectedly sharp decline in revenue from trading in government bonds, foreign currencies and other fixed income products as falling stock prices spooked investors.Investors have fretted for the past several months over the Federal Reserve’s next moves and President Trump’s unpredictable trade tariff announcements. Those concerns are not likely to dissipate, and Citi’s chief executive, Michael Corbat, said they could eventually be more of a drag on the economy than actual policy changes.“Right now, we see the biggest risk in the global economy as one of talking ourselves into a recession,” Mr. Corbat said in a conference call with analysts.Still, Citi warned that monetary and trade policies could affect its performance in the future.The bank’s chief financial officer, John Gerspach, said in a call with reporters that continuing uncertainty about how various countries’ central banks will carry out plans to drain excess cash from the global financial system and about the Trump administration’s protracted trade war with China risked hurting the American economy in the second half of this year or early in 2020.Citi recorded $17.1 billion in revenue for the quarter, compared with the $17.6 billion expected by analysts. The deficit did not indicate major problems for the bank, but it showed that, however vague, investors’ worries about the future can have a measurable impact on a big corporation’s results.[Read more about the key factors affecting stocks and the economy.]Furious activity in the financial markets can sometimes help companies that are close to Wall Street by generating more business for them, but Citi’s clients opted to hold tight as stocks began to drop in September, Mr. Gerspach said.“Clients — investors and corporate clients — waited on the sidelines,” he said.Citi customers, Mr. Gerspach said, did not ask the bank to make many trades on their behalf because they were “waiting for clearer market conditions” that never came.“In December, they got worse,” he said.As a result, Citi’s fixed income trading revenue for the fourth quarter was down 21 percent from the same period a year earlier and 39 percent below the results for the third quarter of 2018.The bank’s performance in other areas was solid. Loans and deposits ticked up again, and Citi said the administration’s corporate tax cuts had been slightly better for its balance sheet than originally estimated. Citi shares were up nearly 4 percent in trading Monday.Citigroup was the first of the country’s major banks to report fourth-quarter results. JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo will issue their reports on Tuesday, with Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley set to do so on Wednesday.The debt markets these days are being described in nearly apocalyptic terms. We’re in a meltdown! It’s a long freeze! It’s sending us an ominous warning!The hand-wringing started with the news that for the first time in years, not a single American company successfully issued a high-yield bond during December. In other words, companies with poor credit that wanted to borrow money by issuing public bonds couldn’t find anyone willing to take the risk on them. (A pipeline company broke the dry spell on Jan. 10.) At the same time, an index that tracks the price of leveraged loans — made by big banks to companies with a fair amount of debt already — noted that the average price of such risky loans had fallen more than 3 percent in one month to around 94 cents on the dollar, the largest one-month decline since August 2011. By contrast, last summer investors in leveraged loans couldn’t gobble them up fast enough and were willing to pay much higher prices and accept lower yields, which reflect the interest paid by the borrowing companies. “The market just continues to weaken,” a high-yield bond trader told The Financial Times.Actually, quite the opposite is true. The debt markets are undergoing a healthy and much-needed correction that is slowly eliminating a decade of reckless euphoria. Soon after the 2008 financial crisis began, the Federal Reserve instituted a policy of forcing down interest rates to historically low levels. The “zero interest rate policy,” which continued until December 2015, revived the moribund American economy. But when debt is really cheap, borrowers load up on it, to a fault. Even blue-chip companies such at AT&T and G.E. have gorged on the cheap money to acquire other companies, pay dividends or buy back stock. (AT&T has said it is generating enough cash to “manage its obligations.” G.E. says it has plenty of assets and available credit.)Smart investors are now turning the tables. For issuers of risky debt securities, the past few months have been very difficult. They haven’t been able to sell new debt at the low interest rates they have been enjoying for nearly a decade. For a hypothetical company issuing $1 billion of high-yield debt, the annual interest expense would be $25 million higher today than it was two and a half years ago.What’s bad news for issuers of high-yield debt is good news for investors, who are finally waking up to the fact that they have been taking risks on companies with poor credit quality for years without being properly compensated. They are no longer so willing to take on that risk. That’s in large part why there was no high-yield debt issued in December and why leveraged loans have been trading down. It’s a sign of a healthy debt market, not of a damaged one.Sadly, all sorts of people get addicted to the euphoria of low interest rates. There are hedge fund managers, private-equity moguls and big banks that have been using the debt markets to borrow money extremely cheaply. They have been raking in the profits in recent years, in part by piling too much debt onto companies and then paying themselves a huge dividend with the proceeds of the debt offerings. Politicians, too, seem to get hypnotized by the perceived benefits of low interest rates. President Trump has been publicly criticizing Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, who has been carefully ending the era of super-low interest rates in a measured and responsible way, with small rate increases that have so far caused minimal disruption to the economy, although the perceived pace of the increases seemed to rattle investors late last year. After the fifth straight quarterly rate increase, Mr. Trump, worried that the hikes might slow growth or even tip the economy into recession, complained that Mr. Powell would “turn me into Hoover.” On Jan. 3, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas said the Fed should assess the economic outlook before raising short-term interest rates again, a signal that the Fed has hit pause on the rate hikes. Even Mr. Powell has signaled he may be turning more cautious.While this new sobriety in the bond market is healthy, it doesn’t mean the companies that gorged on debt can avoid the consequences. Their debts aren’t disappearing, and it could be even harder for them to refinance existing debt or to issue new debt. That could spell trouble for the economy down the road. If, for example, either AT&T or G.E. were to default on their heavy debt loads, there would be considerable fallout in the economy as a whole. Anyone worried about the health of the American economy should welcome this renewed investor vigilance as a sign of much-needed discipline. Sixty-three years ago, William McChesney Martin, the longest-serving chairman of the Federal Reserve, described the job of the Fed as that of the “chaperone who has ordered the punch bowl removed just when the party was really warming up.” To be willing, in other words, to raise interest rates to rein in investor exuberance. Follow the advice of your admired predecessor, Mr. Powell, and take that punch bowl away.William D. Cohan is a special correspondent for Vanity Fair and the author of, most recently, “Why Wall Street Matters.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.WASHINGTON — President Trump has latched on to the idea of using steel to build his wall along the southern border, praising himself for fulfilling two campaign promises at once: keeping out illegal immigrants and resuscitating a struggling industry.“They were doing very poorly when I took office, and now they’re doing very well,” Mr. Trump said of American steel makers before boarding Marine One this month. “Our steel industry was dying, and now it’s very vibrant.”But in the 10 months since the Trump administration imposed 25 percent tariffs on steel imports, prices in the United States have now fallen back to levels last seen before the tariffs were announced on March 1.Hiring in the steel sector remains stagnant, in part because new mills have become more reliant on automation. Even with the opening and restarting of several mills last year, direct steel industry employment was 146,300 as of November — 4 percent lower than it was four years ago, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute. Industry analysts estimate that steel companies made 50 announcements of plans for new mills and investments last year and that three dozen plants were built or restarted.Investors are increasingly wary about the industry’s long-term strength. Stock prices for some of the nation’s biggest steel manufacturers dropped by as much as 47 percent in 2018 amid fears of slowing global economic growth and the potential for Mr. Trump to reach trade deals that remove the tariffs.“We fully expect the players in the steel supply chain to have weaker years in 2019,” said Philip Gibbs, a metals analyst at KeyBanc in Ohio.The Trump administration imposed sweeping steel and aluminum tariffs on trading partners like Europe, Canada, Japan and Mexico, saying it was trying to protect American security by preventing a flood of cheap metals into the United States. The tariffs, which went fully into effect in June, initially goosed steel prices in the United States, which jumped more than 50 percent after it became clear that the tariffs would really be put in place.Mr. Trump has routinely pointed to the rising prices as a boon to American steel companies. But the price spike ultimately hurt demand as industries that rely on the metal, like automakers and homebuilders, struggled to absorb the rising costs or passed them on to customers.Caterpillar, the farm equipment manufacturer, said last year that it would face $200 million in additional costs because of the steel tariffs. General Motors slashed its profits forecast for 2018 because of higher steel costs. Many businesses chose alternative materials or delayed investments, putting pressure on steel prices, which have since fallen.According to S&P Global Platts, prices for American-made hot-rolled coil steel, the industry benchmark, jumped 41 percent in the first half of 2018 and then fell about 21 percent from that peak in the second half of the year. That trend is likely to continue this year.“Steel prices remain under pressure to begin 2019,” said Michael Fitzgerald, a metals pricing specialist at S&P Global Platts. “Typical seasonal improvements following the slower holiday period are yet to take hold as domestic steel buyers no longer fear a supply crunch.”American businesses and trade groups have repeatedly urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs, arguing they hurt domestic companies, not competitors, and will ultimately undercut economic growth.“Tariffs are taxes paid for by American families and American businesses — not foreigners,” said Thomas J. Donohue, the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.American steel makers are feeling the pressure. Despite strong earnings in 2018, the stock prices of steel companies have been in a deep slump as investors fret that they are being propped up by government support that will be temporary. In the last year, shares of AK Steel are down 56 percent, US Steel is down 46 percent, Steel Dynamics is down 29 percent and Nucor’s stock is down 18 percent.John J. Ferriola, the chief executive of Nucor, said that the falling stock price is head-scratching because he believes that the industry is on solid footing. While Mr. Trump’s tariffs have provided a “tailwind,” a strong economy, tax cuts and anti-dumping measures put in place by the Obama administration have revived the steel industry, Mr. Ferriola said.“There’s a lot of doomsday talk about the tariffs and a lot of misinformation,” Mr. Ferriola said in an interview. “I keep hearing about how it is driving down demand and putting our customers out of business. We had a record year last year, and many of our customers also had a record year.”Nucor announced last week that it plans to build a $1.35 billion steel plant in the Midwest. However, trade experts and steel analysts worry the additional capacity could drive down steel prices even further and question whether such projects will eventually be scrapped if the economy cools.A key for the industry will be improving efficiency while the insulation from the tariffs remains.“Historically the U.S. steel industry has received a tremendous amount of trade protection over the last 40 years in different forms,” said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “The issue is that during the periods that they do receive protection, they don’t historically tend to invest in becoming more efficient and more competitive.”In the near term, the steel industry’s best hopes for a meaningful lift would be Mr. Trump and Congress joining forces on major infrastructure legislation that would keep America’s steel mills churning.With such movement unlikely amid partisan gridlock in Washington, some are hanging their hopes on the possibility of a border wall built with steel slats or, as Mr. Trump recently suggested, “steel that has concrete inside.” According to an analysis conducted by the American Iron and Steel Institute, the industry’s lobbying group, an all-steel barrier along the border could consume as much as three million tons of steel.“If they decide to build a barrier and decide to make it out of steel, the industry stands ready and capable and more than able to provide the steel and assist in the construction,” Mr. Ferriola said.After rising for nine years in a so-so economy in the belief that prosperity was just around the corner, stocks swooned, even as growth picked up.That left many investors wondering whether the economy is turning another corner into a place where danger, maybe even a recession and a prolonged bear market, lurk.The S&P 500 dropped 13.5 percent during the fourth quarter, including dividends, giving the index a 4.4 percent loss for the year by that measure. It was the worst performance since 2008, despite strong corporate earnings and the best readings in several decades in unemployment and consumer confidence.As 2019 unfolds and the economic picture becomes clearer, it is possible that stocks will have a sustained, orderly recovery, investment advisers say. But achieving that clarity will take time, so they encourage investors to demand a lot of evidence that a recession will be avoided before they commit money to stocks or other risky assets.“A lot of the derating that happened in the second half of 2018 started off being driven by political risk, but in the last few weeks, it has been driven by concerns about growth and stability,” said Kate Moore, chief equity strategist at BlackRock, referring to the decline in stocks. “I think that’s going to go on in the first few weeks of 2019. Everyone’s focused on economic data.”Ms. Moore highlighted surveys showing weaker-than-expected business conditions and added: “It’s going to take time for that to work itself through the market. I would expect more volatility as we take in new data points.”Just how weak those data points are likely to be is hard to predict.“The underlying fundamentals of the economy certainly have deteriorated,” said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. He noted that the five monthly regional business surveys conducted by Federal Reserve districts “were all extremely weak in December.”But the latest employment report was not. It showed 312,000 net jobs created last month.“We have a very mixed economic picture right now,” Mr. Yardeni said. “It all adds up to an economy that’s slowing but probably still growing.” If that’s true, then 2019 may not be so bad for the market.“Stocks are very cheap, with one important qualification,” he said: “You have to believe the economy is not going to wind up in recession.”He then offered another qualification, about forthcoming corporate earnings reports: “We still have to curb our enthusiasm because we can’t get too excited about the earnings outlook.”The tax cuts that took effect in 2018 sent earnings up so much for the year — the latest estimate for the S&P 500 was 20.2 percent, according to FactSet Research — that a 5 percent rise in earnings in 2019, aided by corporate buybacks, is about as much as Wall Street can expect, Mr. Yardeni said. FactSet’s latest forecast is for a 7.3 percent increase.Despite some good days for the market in January that may have been prompted by signs of flexibility from the Federal Reserve, the way stocks tumbled late in the year hardly inspires confidence. With anything like a repeat performance, investors will have to hope that other assets provide better protection than in 2018, when there were few places to hide.“Cash was the only major asset class that posted positive returns in ’18,” according to a Bank of America report. Even the reed-thin 1.9 percent return on cash in money market funds was less than the 2.2 percent consumer inflation rate, the report said, but at least it was a positive number. Long-term government bonds, corporate bonds and gold all lost ground, although they beat the return of the S&P 500. Oil and foreign stocks were among the investments that did worse.The average domestic stock fund lost 14.2 percent in the fourth quarter, with specialists in natural resources, technology and financial services leading the way down. These funds dropped 6.8 percent during the year, according to Morningstar. International stock funds outperformed during the quarter, losing 10.9 percent, but trailed badly for the full year, down 13.2 percent.Bond funds lost 0.9 percent in the quarter and 1 percent for all of 2018. High-yield portfolios were particularly weak, off 4.6 percent for the quarter and 2.8 percent for the year.Such across-the-board weakness is rare “because what tends to be bad for one asset tends to be good for some other asset somewhere,” said Ben Inker, head of asset allocation for the investment firm GMO. “The basic exception is when there is a combination of rising rates and slowing growth. Risky assets don’t like slowing growth, and fixed income doesn’t like rising rates.”Mr. Inker, like many, is worried that the Fed could push a fragile economy into recession. That would be “fairly ugly for valuations” of American stocks, he said, and he would avoid them even if he were confident that a recession could be skirted. He prefers stocks and bonds in emerging markets, which are much cheaper than their counterparts in mature economies.“We’re reasonably bullish on our ability to make money in 2019, just not in the assets most people have most of their money in,” he said.One reason for the poor returns on stocks, especially in December, is that the Fed initially had not seemed to share the fear felt on Wall Street. When the Fed raised its target for short-term interest rates last month, the move was almost universally anticipated, but the statement about economic conditions and monetary policy made after the increase “was not as dovish as the market was hoping for,” said Steve Kane, a bond fund manager at TCW.Recent data “signals an economic slowdown,” and not just in the United States, Mr. Kane said. Surveys “confirm a significant drop in manufacturing activity. There are also signals that growth in China is slowing dramatically and significantly,” he said.The flattening yield curve, with short-term interest rates approaching long-term rates, is consistent with an economy that is running out of steam, and a source of concern in itself. But recent remarks by Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the central bank will have “patience” in deciding whether to raise rates, appeared to cheer the markets.If rates are priced for a slowdown, some corporate bonds are not, Mr. Kane said. At least not yet. Spreads in yields between corporate and government debt have widened, taking bond prices down. Medium-term investment-grade corporate issues yielded 1.76 percentage points more than equivalent Treasury paper, as of Tuesday, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and an index of high-yield debt yielded 4.65 points more. A two-point cushion is roughly where investment-grade spreads tend to peak during a slowdown, but high-yield spreads typically soar to 10 points.“One should look at the fixed-income market as being more attractive to invest in 2019 than 2018, but one must still invest with some degree of caution, especially in the high-yield market,” he said. “There will be better opportunities later in the year” in high yield, while “there is not too much downside to investment-grade credit at this point.” He called it “a fairly good asset class if we’re in the midst of a bear market in equities.”Stocks that Ms. Moore at BlackRock thinks would do comparatively well against such a backdrop are of companies that are financially strong and able to grow, even when economic growth is modest at best. Health care is her top sector because it has those defensive qualities, as well as pockets of innovation, such as in medical technology, that support high profit margins.She said she is “not throwing in the towel on tech” in general, despite plunging share prices in big names like Apple and Facebook, and she said she particularly likes Asian tech companies. Ms. Moore also is “modestly encouraged” about emerging markets in Latin America and Asia, most notably Brazil and India.Brian Singer, head of dynamic allocation strategies at William Blair & Company, has been investing “with a greater emphasis on risk management,” he said. He finds American stocks “fundamentally less attractive” than others, such as emerging markets, including the two that Ms. Moore mentioned.Among mature economies, Mr. Singer likes Britain, although he would rather wait until the question of its departure from the European Union, Brexit, is settled before stepping in, and Spain. Markets he is shunning, aside from the United States, are Japan, Canada, Mexico and South Africa. As for bonds, he is avoiding the high-yield market, and he talked up the virtues of another asset class that is often overlooked.“In this environment, cash will be a relatively good alternative,” he said. “It won’t be a great return generator, but being cautious and holding cash is not a bad idea. It really is a time to remain defensive and have dry powder on hand.”With so much up in the air, Mr. Yardeni recommends not getting carried away. Investors should be selective about stocks and avoid index-tracking exchange-traded funds.“This is probably a year for stock pickers,” he said. “It’s not a year for E.T.F.s.”He would emphasize domestic stocks and limit exposure to emerging markets, which may suffer from soft commodity prices, and to Europe, which is dealing with thorny issues like Brexit and Italy’s recalcitrance in reining in government spending. The aging population bodes ill for long-term growth in Europe, too, Mr. Yardeni said, something that also applies in China.He favors industries like technology, communications and media, which he expects to benefit over the long haul from the impending introduction of 5G, the fifth generation of mobile communications technology. Big banks and health care companies should do well, too, he said.With investors focused on what’s going wrong, Mr. Kane recommends that they also keep in mind what’s going right, in particular the strong job market, although he noted that employment is often the last indicator to deteriorate as the economic cycle turns.“If that part of the economy holds up, then this may not be a recession,” he said. “You could get a very nice return for stocks if that turns out to be the environment.” But he acknowledged that it’s a big if.A crucial question for him is whether the decline will be fairly mild by the time it’s over, or something more severe, as in the 2008 financial crisis. For all the talk of recession, the losses so far have appeared calm and orderly, suggesting to him that too few investors have been asking the same question.“Whether it’s a garden-variety or end-of-days bear market,” he said, “there’s going to be panic, and we haven’t gotten quite there yet.”Each week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, It’s Erin Griffith, reporting, happily, from my home base in San Francisco and not the carnival of virtual assistants, shiny screens, crowded smart homes and greasy VR demos in Las Vegas. Our correspondents made the CES maze of gadgets look almost fun, which anyone who has been there before knows is an impressive feat.Back in the land of magical, billion-dollar start-up unicorns, things have been quieter, thanks to the federal government shutdown. No Securities and Exchange Commission means no progress on initial public offering plans of the larger start-ups, including Uber and Lyft.Any other time in the last five years, this would not have mattered. The unicorns have been putting off their public market debuts for as long as possible — what’s another month or two? But a volatile stock market and signs of a possible recession have fostered a creeping sense of panic.As The Times reported in December, Uber and Lyft already accelerated their I.P.O. plans to try to get ahead of a potential market shift. This week, Dara Khosrowshahi, chief executive of Uber, tempered expectations, telling The Wall Street Journal that market turbulence was not likely to affect the company’s plans, but “if it doesn’t happen, it doesn’t happen.”Uber shareholders would most likely be disappointed if the company does not go public in the coming year, he added.The shutdown, volatility and recession fears are happening at a crucial moment. The start-up world’s success hinges, in part, on its ability to use hype and “trust me” confidence to persuade people to believe in a vision of the future. It’s easy to get caught up in the narrative of innovation, disruption and rising valuations (and ignore the lack of profits).But not everyone has, and skeptics are getting louder. Chamath Palihapitiya, a prominent venture capital investor, recently called the entire start-up and venture capital system a “charade” and “an enormous multivariate kind of Ponzi scheme.”He’s right in one sense: A Ponzi scheme relies on its creator’s ability to persuade ever-larger crowds to buy into his or her vision. Same goes for start-ups that haven’t proved they’re able to turn a profit. A flash of doubt, especially among public-market investors, could spiral into a broader questioning of the entire start-up ecosystem.For the largest, most valuable start-ups in Silicon Valley, many of which plan to prove themselves and their unprofitable business models to the world by going public, there could not be a worse moment for that to happen. If Uber can’t go public, what does it mean for all the “Uber for X” companies that followed its lead?Cracks are beginning to show. This week, two high-flying start-ups experienced a reality check in their fund-raising. WeWork sought to raise $16 billion in new funding from SoftBank, its main backer. The company wound up raising just $2 billion — still an enormous pile of cash, but a steep step down from its original plan.And Bird, a two-year-old scooter company that was so sought-after by investors last summer that they doubled the company’s valuation in just a few weeks, is now raising funding at a flat valuation, according to Axios.Some venture capital investors say they welcome a downturn, as I wrote this week. They’re hoarding cash and making “downturn lists” of companies to invest in once valuations become more reasonable. And some companies have seen the venture-fueled madness and decided it’s not for them.Elsewhere this week:■ Economists and investors are clashing over the health of the American economy. No one is debating the health of the Chinese economy, with concerns spreading to non-tech companies including Ford, FedEx, Starbucks and Tiffany, Matt Phillips writes.■ Apple’s biggest issue is not the Chinese economy, it’s that people like the columnist Kevin Roose’s mother don’t feel the need to replace their phones every two years anymore.■ That may explain the surprising news from CES that Apple struck deals with a number of hardware companies, including Vizio, Samsung, Sony and LG, to use its software. The deals — something the company has resisted in the past — show Apple’s ambition to make more money from content and services, as sales of its cash cow, the iPhone, slow down, Brian X. Chen writes.■ When the government asked Palantir and Oracle to share the number of women and minorities it employs, the companies tried to hide the numbers, citing them as “trade secrets.” According to a report from Reveal News, the numbers are abysmal. (Palantir has no female executives and just one female manager.) The publication sued to obtain the letters the companies sent justifying their privacy around the issue. The Palantir letter cited fears that competitors would steal their lone female manager.After the wrenching swings of late 2018 and early January, it was difficult to harbor many illusions about the stock market. It became clear that investing in stocks wasn’t easy, predictable or safe, at least in the short run. If you weren’t a risk taker or deeply committed for the long term, it was difficult to look at the market closely and remain calm.In fact, the long bull market had a near-death experience in December. Based on intraday trading, stocks descended just below the 20 percent-loss threshold that customarily denotes the birth of a bear market. Counting only prices at the market close, however, the Dow Jones industrial average didn’t quite fall into that dismal territory. Still, despite a market rise in January, losses have been severe, especially in sectors that had been highfliers, like technology. What’s an investor to do? Our quarterly survey contains some lessons and suggestions. After a Market Swoon, Investors Want SafetyRecession fears have emerged despite strong job growth, making some investors wary of stocks and looking for havens. But many strategists urge caution, saying it isn’t wise to pile on risk until the status of the market and the economy are clearer. Read more » Real Estate Funds Have Been a Balm in a Stinging MarketReal estate funds fared reasonably well through much of the autumn downturn. While headline-grabbing sectors like technology plunged, funds that invested in commercial real estate — office buildings, malls and warehouses — were fairly steady. What are their prospects in a really rocky market?Read more » For a While, Bond Funds Were an Exception to the Indexing RuleBonds are often a source of solace during stock downturns, and active bond funds have done relatively well compared with index funds. Active bond funds were actually beating index funds in 2018 until December, but then they fell behind. The problem is that index funds tend to be cheap and difficult to beat consistently. In the longer term, it’s hard to make a strong case for the human touch.Read more » I’ll Do Evil and I’ll Get Rich. You Can Have a Share.Social media companies have made a big mistake, our columnist John Schwartz says. They have apologized for what they say are errors. But he has a plan: He will proudly do bad things, evil things and, with total transparency, become obscenely rich.Read more » How 3 Funds Sidestepped a Market ThumpingSeveral top-performing funds outpaced their peers. They took different routes, like betting on Latin American companies, real estate investment trusts and dividend-paying stocks.Read more » Some Funds Win When Others Lose. But When the Others Win …So-called inverse funds that move against the market offer a way to hedge that can be splendid when most stocks fall. But these funds drop rapidly when the overall market rises, and they can quickly cause major damage to a portfolio.Read more » E.T.F.s Try to Lure Investors Into Ever Narrower NichesBy carving the stock market into specialized slices, these funds take investors into interesting places. Yet they may tempt shareholders to take imprudent risks in the quest for the next big thing.Read more » Health Care May Not Cure What Ails Portfolios This TimeDespite a history of performing well in down markets, investments in the health care industry have looked vulnerable amid uncertainty about American health insurance.Read more » A Book Says You Can Retire Early. But It Doesn’t Really Say How.The author of a new book argues that you probably can retire far sooner than you think, but she leaves out a lot of details.Read more » In This Market, It May Be Time to Play DefenseAfter a long stretch of market woes, investors have many choices for protecting their portfolios, from complicated maneuvers to a classic response: doing nothing.Read more » Follow Jeff Sommer on Twitter: @jeffsommerFor mutual-fund investors, the fourth quarter of 2018 was a hailstorm — a stinging deluge in which nearly every sort of investment seemed to get plunked.Yet several top-performing funds managed to find refuge in far-flung corners of the market, like Latin American companies, real estate investment trusts and dividend-paying stocks.T. Rowe Price Latin America Verena E. Wachnitz, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Latin America Fund, was spared the fourth quarter’s party of pain because of where she invests: Latin America was one of the few major markets that rose late last year.Brazil accounted for much of that gain. It endured a severe recession in 2015 and 2016 and anemic growth in 2017. But a stronger recovery began last year, and the Brazilian Bovespa stock index gained 15 percent in 2018.Brazil is Latin America’s biggest economy, and its stocks account for more than 60 percent of the MSCI Emerging Markets Latin America index, so Ms. Wachnitz keeps a big chunk of her shareholders’ money there.“Brazil has a lot of high-quality companies,” she said. “Whatever happens there is key for the region.” Seven of her fund’s top 10 holdings are Brazilian, including two banks, Itaú Unibanco and Banco Bradesco, and an apparel retailer, Lojas Renner.The banks, two of Brazil’s heftiest, are profiting as consumers start to borrow and spend more with the recovery, Ms. Wachnitz said.Lojas Renner likewise stands to gain from a surge in consumer spending. “They’re really going into the digital age, and the consumer experience improves every year,” she said. “Now you can check out directly with employees who have hand-held devices.”Ms. Wachnitz has also benefited from where she chose not to invest: She shied from Mexico, because of concerns about how the policies of its new government might affect the profitability of its companies. Mexican shares make up only 14.6 percent of her fund, compared with 21.6 percent of the index. The S&P BMV IPC, a leading Mexico stock index, lost 15.27 percent last quarter.“I’m not that worried about trade and Trump,” she said. “The new trade agreement is moving forward. But policymaking is deteriorating in Mexico, with a more populist, left-wing type of government.”Ms. Wachnitz’s fund, with a net expense ratio of 1.29 percent, returned 6.01 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of 13.52 percent, including dividends, for the S&P 500. The quarter’s punishments weren’t limited to the S&P 500 and Mexico: Nearly every stock-market sector tracked by Morningstar recorded a loss.MFS Diversified IncomeMFS Diversified Income didn’t manage a gain in the fourth quarter: It lost 3.79 percent. But it still outpaced all but a few competitors by spreading its bets around on income-producing securities. The fund, with an expense ratio of 0.99 percent, aims to “out-yield the equity market but outgrow the bond market and hopefully do so with less volatility,” said Robert M. Almeida, its lead portfolio manager. To do this, it owns both stocks and bonds.On the stock side, Mr. Almeida divides his shareholders’ money among real estate investment trusts and dividend payers and, on the bond side, investment-grade, high-yield and emerging-market debt.His starting point is an allocation of 20 percent of the fund’s assets to each of these asset classes — R.E.I.T.s, dividend payers and investment-grade bonds — as well as 25 percent to high-yield bonds and 15 percent to emerging-markets bonds. He then tweaks the precise weight of each by consulting with MFS’s other portfolio managers and its analysts. “In the fourth quarter, we were overweight emerging-market debt and R.E.I.T.s and underweight high-yield debt and global dividend-paying stocks,” he said.Those emerging-markets bonds represent a wager that the finances of some of the developing world’s governments are safer than the markets may appreciate. Mr. Almeida said many investors fixate on the economic trouble spots in the emerging world, like recently Venezuela and Turkey.“What doesn’t get talked about is Chile and Peru, which are fundamentally strong countries. I don’t think of them as high risk. High-yield debt is risk. There, you’re lending to the lower-quality end of the U.S. corporate market, which is going to have to refinance a lot of debt at higher rates over the next two to three years.”Mr. Almeida said his R.E.I.T. bet stemmed partly from a presentation made by Richard R. Gable, portfolio manager of the MFS Global Real Estate Fund. “Rick was saying the R.E.I.T. sector was the cheapest it’d been, relative to financials and the rest of the equity market, in years,” he said.Among R.E.I.T.s, Mr. Almeida said, MFS prefers those “with properties that are really hard to replicate.” His fund’s top real estate holdings include the Simon Property Group, the United States’ largest shopping-mall owner, and AvalonBay Communities, an apartment owner that is strong in coastal urban markets.American Funds College 2024 and College 2027 The American Funds College 2024 Fund and College 2027 Fund also buy both stocks and bonds. The two target-date college funds don’t invest directly in those securities but do so through other funds in the American family, which is managed by the Capital Group. Both college funds, for example, hold shares of the American Mutual Fund and the Bond Fund of America, which have been part of the American lineup for decades.The college funds are investment options in CollegeAmerica, a 529 college-savings plan sponsored by the state of Virginia. (That “529” refers to a provision of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and anyone can invest in the funds, not just Virginians, though the tax benefits may differ for people in other states.) The 2024 fund lost 1.27 percent in the fourth quarter, while the 2027 fund lost 3.26 percent. The 2024 fund has an expense ratio of 0.73 percent, while the 2027 has one of 0.8 percent.Wesley K.-S. Phoa, principal investment officer for American Funds’ target-date college funds series, said the funds’ bond investments didn’t carry excessive credit risk or unexpected correlations with the stock market, while the stock investments emphasized sturdiness, not sizzle. “We’ve picked stock funds that focus on solid blue-chip dividend payers, and that has delivered the resilience we hoped it would,” he said.Mr. Phoa said college funds present an unusual asset-allocation challenge in that investors — often parents — are seeking the savings growth that stocks can bring but they typically have only about 15 years to achieve that. That gives them less time to ride out down markets, like the fourth quarter’s thumping.“Most parents make steady modest contributions, and a lot start when their kids are 6 or 7,” he said. “When you’re putting in modest amounts, you want to get as much growth as you can. So we’re pretty growth oriented for a young beneficiary. But once you get within a couple of years in college enrollment, that’s the last thing you want. So at this stage, we’re invested very conservatively.”For the 2024 fund, whose intended beneficiaries are now 13 to 15 years old, that translates to about 68 percent bonds, 26 percent stocks and 6 percent cash. For the 2027 fund, whose intended beneficiaries are now 10 to 12, that translates to 54 percent bonds, 41 percent stocks and 5 percent cash.Mr. Phoa said he has recently gained a new appreciation of the stresses his clients face, because his own daughter is 16 and thinking about college. “Once you get within a couple of years in college enrollment, the last thing you want to discuss is what’s happening in the 529 account.”Fears of an imminent recession, which caused major turbulence in financial markets at the end of 2018 and beginning of 2019, have eased a bit.That’s the good news. The bad news is what that episode exposed.For much of 2018, it appeared that the world economy was finally getting out of the rut it had been stuck in for the decade since the global financial crisis. But it now looks as if the era of persistently low growth, low inflation and low interest rates isn’t over after all.In the past week alone, the European Central Bank said that economic risks had “moved to the downside,” and the Bank of Japan cut its projections for inflation. The Federal Reserve will hold a policy meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, and is likely to leave its interest rate target unchanged. Its leaders could also discuss their broader strategy for making monetary policy, which may include keeping more of their giant portfolio of bonds — accumulated during its years of stimulus efforts — than analysts had once expected.Despite some promising signs of vitality during much of last year, issues that have dogged the world economy for the last decade — an aging work force in many of the biggest economies, weak growth in productivity, excessive global savings and industrial capacity, and a shortage of worldwide demand — haven’t disappeared.That helps explain why American workers’ wages have been rising relatively slowly despite a low unemployment rate. And it makes for a perilous time: Low growth rates mean the economy could slip into recession more easily, and low interest rates mean central bankers would find themselves with less powerful tools to lessen the pain of a future downturn.“This shows that the forces that are restraining many economies are a lot harder to contend with and more pervasive than many people were hoping or believing,” said Roberto Perli, a partner in Cornerstone Macro. “It’s bad news for the work force’s earnings prospects in many countries and for those who hope for a reversal of the growing inequality trend that has been in place for many years.”Consider that markets went haywire in the final weeks of 2018 in significant part because of fears that the Federal Reserve was raising rates by more than the economy could handle. Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, played a big role in fueling a stock market rebound when, on Jan. 4, he pledged that the Fed would adjust policy “quickly and flexibly” as conditions warranted.His predecessor, Janet Yellen, went so far as to say recently that “it’s very possible we may have seen the last interest rate hike of this cycle.” But what does it mean when a mere 2.4 percent interest rate — the rough level of the Fed’s target after a December increase — is enough to risk breaking the economy?The story is even more pessimistic in the European Union, where interest rates are slightly below zero and yet growth is faltering. With the world economy heavily reliant on stimulus to achieve even meager growth, there is little cushion for a negative shock. In particular, it makes the United States more vulnerable to recession caused by any number of factors, including government shutdowns and trade wars.Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said, “If this is what growth and investment look like when there is relatively loose monetary and fiscal policy — especially in the U.S. — the underlying strength just isn’t there.“That doesn’t mean policy is ineffective or ill-advised. Things would be much worse, unnecessarily, if policy tightened a lot. But it is scary to think of the world economy absent macro support,” meaning the stimulus provided by low interest rates and large deficits.There is the risk of a nasty feedback loop. The low-growth trap of the last decade — and the resulting stagnant incomes — might have contributed to dysfunctional politics in nations including Britain, Italy and the United States. Those dysfunctional politics in turn can create new risks of economic disruption, as we saw in the recent shutdown standoff in Washington.Last year began with signs of a new economic era. In early February, the stock market was falling amid concerns that the United States economy was overheating; that wages and prices would start rising too fast; and that the Fed would need to raise interest rates faster to rein things in. Shifts in bond markets suggested investors were betting on higher future inflation, and on higher interest rates in the distant future than in the near future.For the first time in ages, most of the major advanced and emerging economies were enjoying simultaneous growth surges. As 2018 progressed, inflation in the United States finally moved back up to the 2 percent level that the Federal Reserve targets, and the Fed’s pattern of once-a-quarter rate increases became mostly a nonevent in markets.It was starting to look as if the old economic rules — that low unemployment would translate into higher inflation, that large government deficits would crowd out private investment — were becoming true again.But in the sell-off that knocked about 10 percent off the S&P 500 from the start of October to Christmas Eve, long-term interest rates fell by more than half a percentage point. Bond prices pointed to lower future inflation, as did plunging oil prices.The expected annual inflation rate in the next decade — reflected in the price of inflation-protected bonds — rose to 2.18 percent in April 2018 from 1.66 percent in June 2017. It hovered in the 2.18 range for a few months, then plunged in late October to a recent low of 1.7 percent.And prices in futures markets reflected expectations that the Fed would enact no more interest rate increases in 2019. Even as the consensus view of Fed officials at their December meeting was that two interest rate increases were on tap for 2019, markets were essentially flashing a signal of “Oh no, you don’t.”At the same time, weaker growth in China — a reported 6.6 percent in 2018, still strong by American or European standards — removes a source of strength for the global economy. China is trying to wean itself off debt-driven growth. “Chinese policymakers are well aware they probably have a credit bubble and have tried to be more temperate in response to the current slowdown,” said Julia Coronado, president of MacroPolicy Perspectives. “But it is hard to accept low growth potential. We see the political instability that that brings around the world, and China is now faced with the uncomfortable decision of re-initiating stimulus or living with notably slower growth.”The world economy is not in crisis. Low growth is better than no growth — or outright contraction.But what the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The low-growth world was not just a phase. It’s the new reality beneath every macroeconomic question and debate for the foreseeable future.Add the recent government shutdown to the list of things that didn’t slow the American job market.Over the past eight years, the American economy has endured trade tensions, debt-limit standoffs, foreign-policy crises and all manner of natural disasters. Through it all, companies kept on hiring.The resilience continued in January as employers shrugged off both the monthlong shutdown and fears of an economic slowdown to add 304,000 jobs, far more than forecasters had anticipated. The report from the Labor Department marked the 100th consecutive month of job gains, more than double the previous record.“This jobs report is showing no evidence of an economy slowing, certainly not falling into recession,” said Michelle Meyer, chief United States economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “It’s still a tight labor market. Employers are still actively looking for jobs, and with wages ticking up, it looks like workers are getting some more bargaining power.”Friday’s report does not mean the economy escaped the shutdown unscathed. The Congressional Budget Office this week estimated that the funding lapse shaved $11 billion off total output, $3 billion of which will never be recovered. Those totals don’t include indirect costs from permits not issued, loans not processed and flights not taken because of delays at airports.The effects on spending, investment and output should show up in other government reports, some of which were themselves delayed by the shutdown.Those disruptions didn’t deter employers, however. The unemployment rate rose slightly, to 4 percent, at least partly because of the idling of hundreds of thousands of federal workers. But hiring in the private sector was strong and broad-based, with manufacturers, retailers and construction companies all adding jobs. Wage growth, which has picked up in recent months after years of sluggish gains, remained solid, and the strong labor market continued to pull in workers from the sidelines.The Labor Department did revise downward its estimate of December hiring by 90,000 jobs, an unusually large adjustment. But the strong growth in January, combined with upward revisions to earlier months, meant that the pace of hiring, averaged over six months, actually rose.That combination of strong hiring and modest wage gains has put the economy on a strong, sustainable footing. More jobs means more income for consumers, which leads to more spending, and in turn more hiring.“The virtuous cycle continues,” said Michael Gapen, chief United States economist for Barclays. “What’s kept this recovery going, what’s kept the U.S. economy so resilient to all the things that have clouded the outlook, is a virtuous cycle of a continuously growing U.S. labor market.”None of the threats to the economy over the past several years have disrupted that central pattern. The shutdown, for example, caused ripple effects throughout the private sector, but companies and businesses also found ways to cope. Ben Herzon, an economist for Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm, said that as a result, the shutdown’s economic impact might be more muted than simple economic models might suggest. “The economy is resilient,” Mr. Herzon said. “People and businesses find a way to work around these disruptions. People want to buy stuff, and businesses want to find a way to make that happen.”James Diana and his wife started JD’s Canine Cruiser, a dog-walking and pet-sitting business in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, in 2012. The area’s strong economy has allowed them to expand the business and bring on more contract employees, many of whom are at-home parents and others who might not find work in a less robust economy.Many of Mr. Diana’s customers are federal employees or contractors, and the shutdown hit his business hard. He said cancellations in January were roughly double their normal level, costing him thousands of dollars in lost business. Government workers, he noted, will get back pay, but that won’t help him.“That actually is lost income for us,” he said. “They’re going to get their money back. I’m not going to get my money back.”Mr. Diana said he pared his own spending, but he also tried to fill in the gap in his business. He doubled down on efforts to find new customers, including on Thumbtack, an online marketplace for hiring people to complete tasks. “It forced me to go out there and get more clients,” he said — to “really get out there and start cranking.”A Hidden Shutdown?The relative invisibility of the shutdown in Friday’s data wasn’t a total surprise. Because federal workers will receive back pay, the figures counted all of them as having been on payrolls in January, even if they weren’t actually on the job.Government contractors generally won’t receive back pay, so if they didn’t work, they weren’t counted. Ditto for other private-sector workers who were laid off (or weren’t hired) because of the shutdown. But most economists expected those effects to be small in an economy that employs more than 150 million people. Sure enough, private employers added nearly 300,000 jobs last month.The shutdown does help explain why the unemployment rate ticked up in January. Unlike the monthly hiring figures, which come from a survey of employers and are based on their payrolls, the unemployment rate is based on a survey of households. In that survey, 175,000 more people than in December reported themselves as being unemployed because of a “temporary layoff” — a total that included government workers.“Where’s your shutdown impact? There it is,” said Brett Ryan, an economist for Deutsche Bank in New York. “It just showed up in the unemployment rate.”Cautious, but Still HiringEconomists have become increasingly concerned in recent months about a range of possible threats to the United States economy. Growth has slowed in Europe and China; trade tensions are threatening the American manufacturing sector; stock market jitters could make consumers less likely to spend; and the shutdown, of course, could erode confidence among consumers and businesses.None of that, however, has yet affected the job market.“There’s a caution or concern in people’s voices, but it hasn’t turned into action,” said Teresa Carroll, executive vice president for Kelly Services, a staffing firm. “Anybody in a hiring situation in a company is probably waiting for that next shoe to drop, but it doesn’t mean they’re stopping.”It isn’t just Friday’s data that looked strong. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low. Paychecks are growing — data released Thursday showed that wages and salaries rose 3.1 percent in the final three months of 2018 compared with a year earlier, the fastest growth since the recession ended a decade ago. And employers report in private surveys that they plan to keep on adding workers, at least if they can find them.“The underlying foundation hasn’t changed,” said Becky Frankiewicz, president of ManpowerGroup North America, a staffing firm. She said what she was hearing from clients was “nice, robust optimism continuing around hiring.”As the unemployment rate has fallen, companies have had to work harder to find workers. Ms. Frankiewicz said companies were increasingly offering training, rethinking job requirements and letting employees work remotely. They are also raising pay — a factor that may be attracting people who had previously stopped looking for work. The labor force grew by nearly half a million people in January, suggesting that more Americans are willing and able to work than the low unemployment rate might indicate.“If wages are rising, that gives a greater incentive for folks to come back into the labor force and look for jobs,” Ms. Meyer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.More Complications for PolicymakersThe Federal Reserve had signaled this week that it was pressing “pause” on plans to continue raising interest rates this year. Jerome H. Powell, the Fed’s chairman, said that “the case for raising rates has weakened somewhat” because of low inflation and slowing global growth.Friday’s report seemed to offer a sharp counterpoint to those comments. The economy, at least in the United States, still seems strong, and wage growth has been picking up.Still, economists said the report was unlikely to lead the Fed to reverse course yet again. “This is just one piece of news,” Mr. Ryan of Deutsche Bank said. “They’re going to have to see several more of these before they’re comfortable hiking again.”For President Trump, whose approval ratings have been battered by the shutdown, the Russia investigation and other factors, Friday’s data was welcome news. Both Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign and the White House issued news releases highlighting the jobs figures, and the president hailed the report on Twitter.Corporate warnings about China’s sluggish economy hit stocks on Monday as the battle between the world’s largest economies over trade and technology continued to weigh on the outlook for growth and profits.The warnings, which came from the chipmaker Nvidia and the bulldozer builder Caterpillar, concerned very different sectors of China’s economy. But the message was nearly the same, as was the sharp tumble in shares, which made them the two worst performing stocks in the S&P 500. The broad index dropped almost 0.8 percent on Monday.Nvidia, which makes technology that allows computers to quickly render graphics for games, cut its expectations for revenue in the fourth quarter by roughly half a billion dollars, to $2.2 billion, sending its shares down nearly 14 percent. The Santa Clara, Calif., company cited “deteriorating macroeconomic conditions, particularly in China,” for hampering demand for such graphics-processing chips.Shares of other chipmakers — which derive large chunks of their revenue from sales in China — fell in sympathy with Nvidia. Advanced Micro Devices tumbled almost 8 percent, helping to make the information technology sector one of the worst-performing parts of the S&P 500 on Monday.Meanwhile, Caterpillar, which builds bulldozers, excavators and dump trucks, was down 9 percent after the quarterly profit it reported on Monday fell short of the expectations of Wall Street analysts.The Deerfield, Ill., industrial giant also undershot analyst expectations for its full-year profit forecast. The company said it now expected construction equipment sales in China — somewhere between 10 percent and 15 percent of all of the companies’ construction sales — to be flat in 2019.The health of the Chinese economy, which is the world’s second largest, has emerged as a key risk to the American stock market in 2019. Last year China grew at its slowest pace in 28 years, as it continues shift away from the model that drove the country’s economic rise in recent decades, focusing on industrial exports. It has pushed toward a model that relies more on consumer spending.That transition has been made even more difficult by the eruption of a tariff war with the United States under President Trump. Originally that fight was centered on cutting China’s longstanding trade surplus with the United States, but has more recently expanded to tough-to-resolve issues around determining technological dominance, which would be even more difficult to solve anytime soon.The re-emergence of investor concerns around China have helped cool what was a sizzling start to the year for the American stock market. Through the first three weeks of the year, the S&P was up 6.5 percent, the index’s best start since 1987. It remains up more than 5 percent.Anyone paying attention to financial markets in recent months knew that the Federal Reserve’s management of the economy was perhaps the single most important question on the minds of investors.The Fed, of course, has been raising interest rates, including four increases last year, which unnerved many investors. These days, though, the focus has shifted to what the central bank will do with another tool it previously used to stoke economic growth.As part of its campaign to rescue the economy after the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed bought enormous quantities of bonds issued or guaranteed by the federal government. Now the question is how quickly, and by how much, it will shrink that pile. On Wednesday, the Fed left rates unchanged and signaled that it could slow its bond sales if economic and financial conditions change. Investors cheered, with the S&P 500 rising about 1.5 percent. The index is up nearly 7 percent this year.Once an area of interest for only the most intrepid of Fed watchers, the bond portfolio has started to overshadow more fundamental economic concerns, like China’s slowing economy and the government shutdown. Since last year, the Fed has been reducing its bond stockpile by up to $50 billion a month. Investors increasingly point to the trend to explain the ugly performances of virtually every kind of investment in 2018. Even President Trump weighed in, tweeting in December that the Fed should “Stop with the 50 B’s.”Players in the markets have bestowed the Fed’s bond-shedding policy with its very own nickname: quantitative tightening, or Q.T.So what is quantitative tightening? How is it supposed to work? And how much of an impact is it having on markets? Read on.Before there was Q.T., there was Q.E.The first thing to know is that quantitative tightening is basically the slow unwinding of a series of policies put in place to counter the financial crisis. A decade ago, that crisis nearly pushed the United States into a second Great Depression. Financial markets crashed. Unemployment surged. Economic growth collapsed. By law, the Fed is supposed to fight unemployment. So, when recession rears its head, the central bank steps in, typically by cutting the short-term interest rates it controls. By the end of 2008, it had slashed them essentially to zero. During normal times, short-term interest rates have a strong influence on how much it costs consumers and companies to borrow money. But during the financial crisis, the Fed’s rate cuts barely budged longer-term borrowing rates, which stayed stubbornly high. Investors were so spooked that they refused to put their money into anything other than super-safe, short-term government bonds. The Fed needed to push longer-term interest rates down. With short-term rates at their lowest possible levels, the central bank went looking for new tools. And that is how quantitative easing was born. In early 2009, the Fed started buying immense quantities of bonds — trying to drive their prices up and their rates down. By 2014, the Fed was the proud owner of roughly $2.5 trillion worth of Treasury bonds and more than $1.5 trillion of government-backed mortgage bonds. Did it work?Yes. The Fed’s bond-buying didn’t immediately cure every economic ill brought on by the recession. The United States would limp through nearly a decade of sluggish growth, even as the Fed continued to devour bonds. But the consensus among investors and policymakers is that all of the bond purchases helped push key borrowing rates — such as those for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages and for corporate bonds — to their lowest levels in a generation. That made loans at least a little more affordable and offered some support to the fragile economy. In the stock and bond markets, the power of the Fed’s campaign was even more pronounced. By pumping trillions of dollars into the financial system, quantitative easing propped up the value of stocks, bonds and all sorts of other assets. Few in the markets think it a coincidence that the beginning of Q.E. was also the beginning of the longest bull market in history.Now comes Q.T.A decade later, the economy is in much better shape. Unemployment is at its lowest level in decades. Early data indicates that the economy last year grew at its fastest clip since 2005. Wages are even starting to rise. To the central bank, those rosy economic signs meant it was time to start removing some of the scaffolding it had erected to support the crumbling economy. The Fed started raising interest rates in December 2015. And it has also started to shrink its hoard of bonds. Last year, the Fed’s portfolio declined by more than $350 billion — the sharpest reduction since the crisis. You may have also noticed that the financial markets were battered last year. Almost every type of investment seemed to suffer the same lackluster returns. The S&P 500 was down 6.2 percent. High-quality corporate bonds sank 6.4 percent. United States Treasury bonds generated a paltry 0.9 percent return. A collapse in crude oil prices sent commodities down more than 15 percent. In fact, it was the first time in decades that virtually all major classes of investments suffered in sync, with none posting returns in excess of 5 percent. The concern over Q.T. flared in December. As stock markets swung wildly, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, played down the chance that the central bank would change its approach to its steady bond reductions, which he described as being on “automatic pilot.” The stock market sank about 6 percent in the days after that statement. The Fed’s shrinking bond portfolio isn’t entirely to blame for the carnage of 2018. Plenty of other things had investors worrying: a slowdown in global growth, weakening corporate profits, the trade war with China and the Fed’s rate increases.Economists inside and outside the Fed say the impact last year should have been relatively small. After all, the gradual, recurring bond reductions were set in motion years ago, and should have been incorporated into prices in financial markets.Nevertheless, investors welcomed the Fed’s message on Wednesday that it could change its plans to reduce its bond holdings. The central bank said in a news release that it was “prepared to adjust any of the details for completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments.” In a news conference, Mr. Powell also suggested that the decline of the Fed’s bond holdings could stop sooner and leave the Fed with a larger supply of bonds than previously thought. “Any conversation about the balance sheet that does not use the word autopilot is good,” said Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute.  The stock market’s strong start to the year stalled on Tuesday, amid growing pessimism about the prospects for a deal to defuse trade tensions between China and the United States.The S&P 500, which had enjoyed its best start to a year since 1987 through the end of trading on Friday, ended Tuesday down 1.4 percent, the market’s second-worst loss of the year.Stocks slumped from the outset, and the selling worsened through the day after The Financial Times reported that the Trump administration had rejected an offer from China to hold preparatory talks ahead of high-level trade meetings in Washington later this month.Such advance discussions are thought to be an important step toward cementing an agreement between the world’s two largest economies before March 1. After that date, tariffs on some $200 billion of Chinese goods are scheduled to rise sharply, which would send the trade war into a new and more serious phase.Trade-sensitive tech and industrial shares were the worst performers. Microsoft, Facebook and Google’s parent company, Alphabet, all slumped. Semiconductor makers — much of whose revenue comes from sales in China — tumbled, with Nvidia and Micron dropping more than 5 percent.The major industrial exporters Caterpillar and Boeing fell 3.2 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.The tone from industrial firms that reported earnings on Tuesday did little to improve the mood. Shares of the tool manufacturer Stanley Black & Decker tumbled more than 15 percent after the company offered a disappointing outlook for 2019.“We tried to make it very clear that the economic backdrop is one of slowing growth,” James M. Loree, chief executive of Stanley Black & Decker, said on a conference call with analysts.The trade war seems to be a growing source of weakness for the global economy. On Monday, China reported that its economy grew at its slowest rate, 6.6 percent, since 1990, amid a slowdown of its export sector.The report came the same day as the International Monetary Fund trimmed its forecast for global growth in 2019 to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent, citing, in part, slowing worldwide trade.The colossal disarray over the British government’s plans to leave the European Union comes at an awkward moment for global financial markets.How can anyone in New York hope to make sense of the mess in London when the government in Washington is closed one day, set to re-open the next and in danger of shutting down again soon?Yet financial markets put a price on just about anything, and they don’t stop functioning when governments do. Even when a projected outcome is gruesome or improbable, some traders will try to make a wager on it. Bets on “Brexit” — Britain’s exit from the European Union — and the effects of the government shutdown in this country are well underway.Whether these bets are humane or prudent is another question. But the shifting odds on Brexit have moved stock, bond and foreign exchange markets, especially in the past two weeks, as the government of Prime Minister Theresa May has flirted with disaster.Events in London have grabbed strategists’ attention. In a note to clients on Jan. 16, Capital Economics, a research group in London, said it placed a 70 percent probability on this broad outcome: that Britain finds a way to “fudge and delay” its exit from the European Union past the current March 29 deadline.If that delay becomes certain, or just more likely than it seems now, Capital Economics said, the value of the British pound could be expected to rise. At the same time, British stocks, which have generally lagged behind the S&P 500 since the Brexit referendum in 2016, would probably surge, Capital Economics said.Abrupt movements in foreign exchange markets have already occurred. The pound fell sharply on Jan. 15, when Parliament dealt Mrs. May a crushing defeat. By the largest margin ever for a major issue, lawmakers rejected the Brexit agreement she had spent months negotiating with the European Union.But the next day Mrs. May survived a no-confidence vote, not by acclamation but by default: The opposition Labour Party simply could not muster enough votes to defeat her. She has soldiered on, as the Brexit deadline draws ever closer. Not incidentally, the pound has regained some of its lost ground.March 29 remains a meaningful deadline. One way or another, Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union then. Yet lawmakers and Mrs. May’s government have been unable to agree on a course of action. To continue deliberating about what to do, they would need to ask the bloc for an extension, like a team of unruly students who cannot even agree on a topic as a term-paper deadline approaches.Yet a delay is what most betting people think will happen, according to Capital Economics, which believes a negotiated settlement will, eventually, mitigate much of the harm that could be inflicted by an abrupt exit. This expectation is reflected in current stock, bond and currency prices, Capital Economics said.Bettors have not ruled out a much more disruptive scenario that is viewed as a low-probability event — somewhere below 20 percent but above zero. That is Britain’s exit on March 29 without any negotiated agreement at all.What would that mean? The Bank of England has boiled the probable effects down in straightforward and troubling terms. In a November report it projected that such a “no deal Brexit” would be a major shock that could subtract more than 10 percent from Britain’s gross domestic product.Unemployment would soar, inflation would rise and Britain would fall into a serious recession, the central bank said. While the sun set on the British Empire long ago, the fallout of a calamity in Britain for the European Union, the global markets and the worldwide economy, would be significant, if less easily measured.Goldman Sachs is less sanguine than rank-and-file bettors: In a report this month, it placed the odds that Brexit would be delayed at only 50-50. And, it said, “the distribution of risks around Brexit outcomes is widening.”Goldman placed a 40 percent probability on the chance that Britain, in the end, would not leave the European Union at all, which would be accomplished through another referendum repudiating the original vote. The bank assigned a 10 percent probability to a no-deal Brexit on March 29, with potentially calamitous consequences.For investors in the United States, Goldman produced a list of companies in the S&P 500 that derive considerable revenue from Britain. Buying shares of these stocks, or betting against them by shorting them, might be a handy way of using the American stock market to place a Brexit wager. The companies include Newmont Mining; PPL, a utility; and three financial services companies: Affiliated Managers; Willis, Towers, Watson; and Invesco.Corporations active in Britain have been hedging against Brexit for months, of course, by shifting parts of their operations to places deemed more stable.The latest to announce a move is Dyson, the appliances company privately held by James Dyson, an outspoken Brexit advocate. The company said this week that it would move its headquarters to Singapore. In an article in The Telegraph, Mr. Dyson assured his countrymen that he was making this move because of Asia’s expanding place in the company’s global operations, not because of Brexit.Whatever his reasons, most British residents can’t hedge against Brexit by relocating part of their households to another country. Instead, if the probability of a wrenching separation from Europe appeared to be rising, prudent people might take the steps that anyone does when a possible disaster looms: hoarding necessities like food, water and medicine; stocking up on cash and fuel; retreating to safer ground, if any can be found.Such measures may be individual lifesavers, but when many people take them at once, they may make a crisis more severe, especially when confidence in government is ebbing.Global markets shudder when panics start, which is why bets on potential crises are risky. And if this is true for Brexit, what can we say about the longest government shutdown in United States history?Financial markets have largely taken the shutdown, and the news Friday of a deal to re-open the government for three weeks, in stride. Despite the pain inflicted on government workers and those who depend on them, economists have generally concluded that the effects will be transitory.But even if a permanent funding agreement is reached, political tensions in the United States remain high, amid a series of simmering crises that could easily unnerve markets. These include the trade conflict between the United States and China and America’s fraying relations with allies like Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and Mexico.Market calculations shift swiftly, and hedging against losses on multiple fronts could quickly become the order of the day.WASHINGTON — As a critical round of talks with China kicks off next week, the Trump administration is increasingly pessimistic that Beijing will make the kind of deep structural changes to its economy that the United States wants as part of a comprehensive trade agreement, according to officials involved with the talks.The United States is now weighing whether large Chinese purchases of American goods and more modest economic changes will be enough for a deal to end a damaging trade war between the two nations and help calm volatile markets.A Chinese delegation led by Liu He, China’s vice premier, will meet with Robert Lighthizer, the Trump administration’s top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, on Jan. 30 and 31. The two countries are racing to strike an agreement by March 2, a deadline set by President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China.If no deal is reached by that date, Mr. Trump has said the United States will raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods.Mr. Trump has focused on narrowing the trade gap between what the United States imports from China and what it exports, but the administration is also pressuring Beijing to scale back subsidies of state-owned enterprises, drastically open its markets to foreign investment and end its longstanding practice of forcing American companies to hand over trade secrets.For years, American companies, including technology firms and automakers, have been clamoring for such changes as they try to gain access to China’s growing market. But many are beginning to fear that if the continuing brinkmanship between the world’s two largest economies is not resolved, American companies will be left in an even worse position.“I would have a hard time, especially considering what’s happening in Washington, believing that this will be wrapped up in a little bow by March,” said Charles Freeman, senior vice president for Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.Markets have been particularly sensitive to the state of the talks, with stocks gyrating as whispers of progress or setbacks trickle out.Stock prices in the United States spiked last week after a Wall Street Journal report suggested that Mr. Mnuchin had recommended the removal of some tariffs to hasten a deal. They jumped again after Bloomberg News reported that China had offered to buy $1 trillion of American goods over the next six years.Over the weekend, Mr. Trump expressed hope that a deal could be reached but dismissed suggestions that the United States would roll back tariffs in advance of concessions from China.“We have taken in tremendous amounts of money in the United States because of the sanctions,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Saturday, apparently confusing sanctions and tariffs. “If we make a deal, certainly we wouldn’t have sanctions.”In a tweet on Monday evening, Mr. Trump once again suggested that the United States had the upper hand in negotiations, saying China’s slowing economy should hasten a trade deal.“China posts slowest economic numbers since 1990 due to U.S. trade tensions and new policies,” the president said. “Makes so much sense for China to finally do a Real Deal, and stop playing around!”Despite Mr. Trump’s optimism about reaching a deal, others in the administration and on Capitol Hill have been more circumspect.“This is an ongoing process with the Chinese that is nowhere near completion,” a Treasury spokesman said, rebutting the suggestion that Mr. Mnuchin had recommended rolling back tariffs.Last week, Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said that Mr. Lighthizer, who is leading the talks, had told him there had been no progress on the “structural” changes that the administration sought from China.Mr. Lighthizer, a longtime China hawk, has been pushing to ensure that China fulfills promises that Mr. Xi made to Mr. Trump during a meeting in Buenos Aires last year. Mr. Lighthizer has expressed concern to colleagues and business groups that Mr. Trump could accept a watered-down deal that reduces the trade deficit but offers only symbolic structural changes to help end the trade war and lift the stock market.In an interview on the Fox Business Network on Friday, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, said he was hopeful that a deal would be reached but acknowledged that many details still needed to be determined.“The technology stuff has not been dealt with, the enforcement stuff has not been dealt with,” Mr. Kudlow said. “The commodity stuff and the tariff rates, we’re moving on the right track.”To those who see the negotiations as the best opportunity to rebalance the trade relationship between Washington and Beijing, the prospect of rolling back tariffs without sweeping concessions by China would fail to achieve Mr. Trump’s goal of ending what he has deemed its unfair trade practices.“He wants to brag about what he got, not stop tariffs and be able to brag about nothing,” said Derek Scissors, a China expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.A slimmed-down deal could also open Mr. Trump up to criticism from Democrats, who in some cases are more aligned with the president’s aggressive approach to pressuring China than many Republicans.“Anything less than a full effort to secure a fundamental reset of the U.S.-China trade relationship is a betrayal of the American economy and the future of American workers, industry, consumers and innovators,” said Representative Richard Neal of Massachusetts, the Democratic chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. “The Trump administration needs to stiffen its spine and get tough in these China talks.”Trump administration officials have been debating whether they can push more tariffs on China without facing significant repercussions. China’s economy is already slowing, in part because of the tariffs, and any further weakening could hurt global economic growth and the United States economy, which is itself showing signs of cooling.Mr. Mnuchin has been particularly interested in how big a role America’s trade actions are playing in China’s recent economic weakness.Trump administration officials have debated whether they should follow through with plans to raise tariffs to 25 percent, from 10 percent, on March 2 if China does not maintain the promises Mr. Xi made to Mr. Trump, like accelerating purchases of American goods and making structural changes to its economy.Progress over the next six weeks could result in an extension of the March 2 deadline, even if a final deal is not reached, or some tariff relief as a reward for initial changes that China says it is willing to make. But the decision will ultimately rest with Mr. Trump.One question bedeviling the talks is how to enforce any trade agreement with China, given its opaque business environment and largely managed economy. One option that administration officials have considered is “snapback” tariffs, which would be reimposed if China appears to be reneging on its commitments.Mr. Trump has pointed to China’s economic weakness as a reason it should acquiesce to his country’s trade demands. But the trade war is also taking a toll on the United States economy, and the monthlong shutdown could lead to an economic contraction if it continues to drag on.While business are hoping for greater access to China’s markets, the strategy of using tariffs as a negotiating tool has dented business confidence. According to a survey of 277 American companies by S&P Global this month, 43 percent said they had postponed investment because of the China tariffs.Michael Pillsbury, a China scholar at the Hudson Institute who advises the administration, said that there were several important unknowns about the trade discussions that suggested a comprehensive deal was not near.It remains unclear if there is a working text of a deal that the two countries are using to hash out an agreement. And it is unclear whether China will pressure the Trump administration to drop its efforts to extradite the chief financial officer of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications company. The executive was arrested in Canada last year as part of a broader agreement. The complicated internal debates taking place within China’s government also make it difficult to predict its willingness to make concessions.“We are a long way to a deal,” Mr. Pillsbury said. “Much work remains to be done, especially untangling the debate in China and pressure on Xi Jinping.”But Mr. Trump is also under pressure and the window for him to use market-rattling tariffs as leverage is likely to shrink as his re-election campaign heats up next year.“The damage to U.S. business, consumers and exporters is real and ongoing,” Scott Lincicome, a trade lawyer and scholar at the Cato Institute, said, noting that the risks of this approach only increased if negotiations with China dragged into 2020. “If you’re the Chinese, delay is your best friend.”WASHINGTON — In suspending its previous plans to continue raising rates this year, the Federal Reserve signaled that its march toward higher interest rates may be ending sooner than expected.The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said economic growth remained “solid” and the central bank expected growth to continue. But in a sharp reversal of the Fed’s stance just six week ago, Mr. Powell said the Fed had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again.“The case for raising rates has weakened somewhat,” Mr. Powell said, pointing to sluggish inflation, slowing growth in Europe and China, and the possibility of another federal government shutdown.“My colleagues and I have one overarching goal,” Mr. Powell said at a news conference on Wednesday after a two-day meeting of the Fed’s policymaking committee, “to sustain the economic expansion.”The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at its first meeting of 2019, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, may stay put for some time.Investors expressed their enthusiasm around the globe early Thursday. Major Asian markets like Japan and Hong Kong rose by about 1 percent, and European stocks opened higher. Futures markets that try to predict stock performances indicated Wall Street would open higher too.On Wednesday, the S&P 500-stock index climbed sharply after the Fed announcement and ended the day up 1.55 percent. Yields on shorter-term Treasury securities, which are heavily influenced by Fed policy, declined as investors concluded that any near-term interest rate increases were off the table.The Fed’s newfound caution is likely to delight President Trump, who argued loudly and publicly through much of 2018 that the Fed should stop raising its benchmark rate, which he said would snuff out the economic expansion. While the president did not address the Fed’s decision directly, he wrote on Twitter: “Dow just broke 25,000. Tremendous news!”Some on the other side of the political spectrum also supported the Fed’s move, saying the slow pace of inflation allowed the Fed to refrain from raising rates, so that job and wage growth could continue.Jared Bernstein, an economist at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, summarized the Fed’s new policy stance as “Don’t just do something, stand there!” He added that the new approach “seems right to me.” Mr. Bernstein said domestic growth was under pressure from tighter financial conditions, the slowdown in global growth and what he called “Trumpian chaos.”“Tightening under these conditions would be unnecessary roughness,” he said.For the last several years, the Fed said consistently that it planned to keep raising interest rates. The pace was uncertain, but the direction was clear. Wednesday’s statement omitted previous language indicating that “some further gradual increases” would be warranted. Instead, it said the Fed would be “patient” in evaluating the health of the economy. And it suggested the Fed stood ready either to raise or to cut rates, depending on economic conditions.Reinforcing this more cautious tone, the Fed also announced in a separate statement that it was prepared to slow or even reverse the steady slimming of its bond portfolio. This, too, was a striking shift. The Fed said in December that it was committed to steadily reducing its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, which it amassed during the financial crisis to help bolster the economy.The Fed’s policymaking committee voted unanimously for the changes.Fed officials had signaled the shift in their thinking in recent weeks, aligning on the theme of patience with unusual consistency, leaving little doubt of their intentions.Still, the strength of the shift caught analysts and investors by surprise, particularly given Mr. Powell’s more hawkish comments at the end of last year.While the Fed is pausing for now, Mr. Powell said he believed the central bank had raised rates to an appropriate level and had not overtightened. “I think our policy stance today is appropriate for the state of the economy,” he said. “That’s my feeling.”Mr. Powell did not directly address how long the Fed planned to remain patient but suggested any future rate increases would depend largely on signs of inflation, which has consistently fallen below the Fed’s 2 percent target.“I would want to see a need for further rate increases, and for me a big part of that would be inflation,” he said.Brian Coulton, chief economist at Fitch Ratings, said he expected economic growth to continue and therefore he expected the Fed to resume rate increases this year. “This reads more like a pause than a strong signal that they believe that they are the end of the hiking cycle,” Mr. Coulton said. “Barring a very significant global downturn, we still see further rate increases later this year.”Others, however, said the Fed may well have raised rates for the last time during the current economic expansion. “It does feel like the top of the cycle,” said Tim Duy, an economist at the University of Oregon who follows the central bank closely. “With the economy poised to slow over the next year, the Fed is not interested in risking turning that slowdown into a recession.”The shift left some Fed watchers puzzling over why the central bank had reversed course so quickly.In early October, Mr. Powell described the Fed’s benchmark interest rate as “a long way from neutral.” The comment was read by markets as implying that the Fed planned to continue raising rates for some time.Mr. Powell sought to soften that impression in subsequent public appearances. After the Fed raised the benchmark rate by a quarter point at its December meeting, Mr. Powell said that the rate was at the lower end of what Fed officials consider the neutral zone: the region in which rates would neither stimulate nor restrain the economy. That implied the Fed was closer to pausing.But Mr. Powell still said the Fed expected to keep raising its benchmark interest rate. And the Fed released projections showing most of its officials predicted at least two rate increases in 2019.In his opening remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Powell said that the change in the Fed’s plans did not reflect “a major shift in the baseline outlook for the economy.” But he struggled to explain the Fed’s reasoning, suggesting later in the news conference that the outlook for growth had soured. He pointed to problems including tightening financial conditions, weak global growth and the government shutdown.One point he made insistently was that the Fed was not taking its cues from Mr. Trump, despite the president’s constant heckling. “We’re human,” Mr. Powell said. “We make mistakes. But we’re not going to make mistakes of character or integrity.”The Fed on Wednesday also sought to clarify its plans for its giant stockpile of Treasuries and mortgage bonds it accumulated in the wake of the financial crisis. A decade ago, the central bank tried to revive economic activity and reduce borrowing costs for things like cars and mortgages by cutting its benchmark interest rate nearly to zero, and by vacuuming up huge quantities of bonds.The Fed’s bond-buying program was intended to encourage investors to buy riskier assets, like stocks and corporate bonds, by driving up the price of safer securities, like Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. The Fed’s enormous purchases drove down interest rates because, as competition for available Treasuries increased, buyers were forced to accept lower rates of return.As the economy recovered, the Fed decided to take away that crutch and since the fall of 2017, it has gradually reduced its holdings at a pace of about $45 billion per month. But the Fed said on Wednesday that it planned to stop relatively soon, maintaining a much larger presence in the bond market than it did before the 2008 crisis.The decision has limited implications for the general public. Some Fed officials and outside experts think that the new approach has improved the Fed’s ability to influence economic conditions, like interest rates, but the practical difference is generally regarded as modest.But it is a big deal for bond markets. The Fed is the world’s largest investor, and even small changes in Fed policy make large ripples. The decision was applauded by some investors, who argue that the Fed’s withdrawal from the bond market is contributing to the volatility of asset prices. Other investors, however, want the Fed to minimize its profile in the bond market.In a final bow to markets, the Fed emphasized its plans were subject to change.“The committee is prepared to adjust any of the details for completing the balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments,” the statement said. It added the Fed was even willing to increase the size of the balance sheet, if necessary.Good Tuesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A bleak message reverberates in DavosAn influential financier warned investors in a letter to pay heed to growing risks and social tensions — and the message is already resonating at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Andrew writes in his column.In his annual letter, Seth A. Klarman, the billionaire investor who runs the Baupost Group hedge fund, warns that social and political division risks economic calamity:“It can’t be business as usual amid constant protests, riots, shutdowns and escalating social tensions.”His message is likely to encourage hand-wringing of a sort usually seen in Davos, Andrew writes.Mr. Klarman says mounting debt in developed countries since the 2008 financial crisis could lead to a financial panic. He is especially worried about the debt load in the United States:“There is no way to know how much debt is too much, but America will inevitably reach an inflection point whereupon a suddenly more skeptical debt market will refuse to continue to lend to us at rates we can afford. By the time such a crisis hits, it will likely be too late to get our house in order.”More from Davos: Political turmoil has led several world leaders to skip the gathering. And less than a quarter of people attending are women.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________China’s economy expands at its slowest paceThe world’s second largest economy grew 6.6 percent last year, the Chinese government said on Monday — its most sedate pace in nearly three decades. The slowdown intensified in the last three months of 2018, and the official jobless rate increased to 4.9 percent last month from 4.8 percent in November.Economists tend to be skeptical about official data from Beijing, but there’s been an onslaught of evidence recently for weakness in the Chinese economy, brought on by crushing debt, a bitter trade fight with the U.S. and evolving business norms.Factory jobs are no longer desirable, leading manufacturers to try automation, according to the NYT. Ford Motor assembly plants in Chongqing are slowing production. Chinese exporters have delayed hiring plans.And China’s securities industry last year suffered its first annual decline in head count since 2014. Bonuses are likely to shrink, too.Officials around the world are sounding the alarm:• Cecilia Malmström, the European Union’s commissioner for trade, said that European investment in China was declining, because doing business there was “becoming increasingly complicated.”• Heng Swee Keat, the finance minister of Singapore, a nation heavily reliant on international trade, said at the World Economic Forum that trade friction between China and the U.S. could have a “very negative” effect on the global economy.• President Xi Jinping of China said on Monday that his Communist Party faced “sharp and serious dangers”:The party is facing long-term and complex tests in terms of maintaining long-term rule, reform and opening-up, a market-driven economy, and within the external environment.I.M.F. expects a ‘serious slowdown’The International Monetary Fund brought a chill to this week’s down-jacketed procession of world leaders, cutting its global economic growth forecasts.The fund expects weakness in Europe, a slowdown in China, a possible no-deal Brexit and trade spats sustained by the U.S. to lead to 3.5 percent growth in 2019 and 3.6 percent growth in 2020, down from October’s forecasts.“Risks are rising” after two years of “solid expansion,” said Christine Lagarde, its managing director. She added:“Does that mean a global recession is around the corner? No. But the risk of a sharper decline in global growth has certainly increased.”More on the global outlook:• The I.M.F. got a new chief economist this month: Gita Gopinath of Harvard, the first woman in the role. She issued warnings at Davos about China and Brexit.• Central banks are grappling with how to use verbal cues and other hints to signal their plans as conditions get tougher.• Some 30 percent of business leaders expect global expansion to slow — six times the number who felt that way a year ago, according to a survey from PricewaterhouseCoopers. It found 37 percent of North American executives optimistic, down from 63 percent last year.• But in what Matt Phillips called “a remarkable turnaround,” stocks have surged in the first few weeks of the year after a substantial plunge at the end of 2018. Buoyed by assurances from the Federal Reserve, it is the market’s best start to a year since 1987.Shutdown Day 32: Rejected proposals and old habitsAs a flash freeze arrived in the Midwest and the Northeast, the shutdown continued to weigh on the homeless, the elderly, veterans, low-income renters and many others.Democrats, who have refused to negotiate until the government is reopened, rejected a proposal from President Trump on Saturday to exchange temporary protections for some immigrants for $5.7 billion for a border wall. Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, called it “hostage taking.”In response, Mr. Trump complained that Speaker Nancy Pelosi has behaved “irrationally,” and then took a shot at San Francisco, which she represents. The bulk of Republican senators have fallen in line behind his proposal, and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, is said to be incorporating the terms into a broader package.Mr. Trump’s behavior feels familiar, write Russ Beuttner and Maggie Haberman:As he did during decades in business, Mr. Trump has insulted adversaries, undermined his aides, repeatedly changed course, extolled his primacy as a negotiator and induced chaos.More shutdown news:• Companies unable to finalize approval for initial public offerings are trying to move ahead with workarounds.• Hours before the shutdown began, Mr. Trump signed a bipartisan criminal justice bill. Implementation is likely to be delayed.• The stock market is one of Mr. Trump’s favorite indicators of his administration’s success. But at times, the going’s been bumpy.Brinkmanship over BrexitAfter her Brexit plan was defeated, Prime Minister Theresa May returned to Parliament yesterday with a Plan B. It looked a lot like Plan A, writes Stephen Castle, setting the stage for another battle with rebellious lawmakers.The proposal: Mrs. May promised to negotiate changes that many regard as cosmetic.The strategy: She appeared to double down on her gamble that lawmakers will eventually hold their noses and vote for her plan, rather than risk a no-deal Brexit or no Brexit at all.The response: Frustration. The process is more or less where it has been for months, with Mrs. May locked in a game of brinkmanship as the clock ticks down.More Brexit news: Britain’s main opposition party is backing a proposal that could open the door to a second referendum. The European Union is increasing its efforts to avoid market chaos if there’s no deal. Companies buying British assets are having to find financing in euros or dollars, if they can find it at all. Two trading platforms are moving out of London. There’s been violence in Northern Ireland. Britain’s statistics agency could find no evidence for a claim that Brexit is making food companies shrink their products. And the billionaire founder of the Citadel hedge fund spent nearly $123 million on a property near Buckingham Palace.Revolving DoorThe chairman of GlaxoSmithKline, Philip Hampton, will step down as the drugmaker breaks itself up. (FT)Peter Plumb, the chief executive of the food delivery app Just Eat, is departing. (FT)The speed readDeals• Two private equity firms are said to be preparing a joint bid of about $7 billion for Nestle’s skin health business. (Reuters)• Takeda Pharmaceutical may sell some emerging-market drugs to cut debt after its $62 billion takeover of Shire. (Bloomberg)• Patek Philippe, the 180-year-old Swiss watchmaker, could be sold for as much as $10 billion, analysts said. (Bloomberg)• OneWeb, the wireless broadband start-up backed by SoftBank and Virgin, plans to launch six satellites next month. (FT)Tech• France fined Google $57 million for breaching rules on warning users how it handles data. (NYT)• Amazon’s advertising business is now worth $125 billion, bigger than Nike or IBM. (NYT)• Tata Power wants to set up electric vehicle chargers in Delhi, one of the world’s most polluted cities. (Bloomberg)• As the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei has worked hard to win over Europeans, security concerns are undermining that. In response, its chief executive is becoming more willing to give interviews. (NYT, Reuters)• China’s mobile users accounted for 40 percent of the $101 billion spent globally on apps in 2018. (CNBC)Politics and policy• The Trump administration’s agreement to lift sanctions on the business empire of the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska would let him pay off substantial debts, a confidential document shows. (NYT)• Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, announced a presidential campaign. Here are some of her likely policy proposals. (NYT, WaPo)• BuzzFeed News faces scrutiny over a report that President Trump instructed Michael D. Cohen to lie to Congress, which prompted a rare denial from Robert Mueller, the special counsel. (NYT)Best of the rest• Neri Oxman, a professor at the M.I.T. Media Lab, and William Ackman, the chief executive of Pershing Square Capital Management, were married on Saturday. (NYT)• Investors are increasing their cash holdings at the fastest clip in a decade. (WSJ)• Several stock-price crashes have dinged the reputation of Hong Kong’s $3.8 trillion market, which has been seen as a Chinese exchange with Western-style safeguards. (WSJ)• Housing prices in Hong Kong have dropped recently, but for the ninth year in a row, the market is still the least affordable in the world. (FT)• “You,” a series about stalking, has become a hit on Netflix. A few months ago, when it was playing on Lifetime, few people had heard of it. (NYT)• J.C. Penney is struggling to avoid same the fate as Sears. And its turnaround strategy keeps changing. (WSJ)• The Swiss bank UBS recorded a profit increase in 2018, but missed analyst estimates because of struggles at its wealth management division. (CNBC)• A nameless, secretive traders’ club promises to let investors “make high-level trades not available to stupid amateurs.” Admission costs $25 million. (Bloomberg)• All internet gambling that involves interstate transactions, not just sports betting, is now illegal, the Justice Department says. (Bloomberg)• The United Nations-backed Green Climate Fund is struggling to regain credibility, raise money and find new leadership after a board meeting collapsed last summer. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Wednesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Millions of Americans have come to count on tax refunds to fuel their spending in the waning days of winter. But as income tax filing season opens on Monday, a sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers’ refund checks and delay them, too.The monthlong government shutdown coincided with one of the Internal Revenue Service’s busiest times, and while 46,000 employees were called back to work without pay, many did not show up. Many taxpayers calling with questions faced delays of over an hour. While furloughed federal workers will return to their jobs on Monday, it will take time to get parts of the I.R.S. running smoothly again. And the workers’ time on the job could be brief, with a temporary measure funding the government expiring in three weeks.Even before the shutdown, big questions loomed about this year’s tax season. The $1.5 trillion tax overhaul that took effect at the beginning of 2018 lowered individual income tax rates, doubled the standard deduction and eliminated or capped many personal exemptions and tax breaks, such as the state and local tax deduction. All told, the overhaul threw a cloud of confusion over the correct amount to withhold in advance from workers’ paychecks.The Treasury Department was given discretion to set new withholding levels, which I.R.S. officials finished early last year to help taxpayers ensure they would not have too much — or too little — held back from their paychecks.But the actual impact of those changes will only be known for sure once the returns are processed. The lack of clarity over what has been an annual injection of cash into the consumer economy is adding a layer of uncertainty just when the United States is already contending with slowing global growth, trade tensions and recent jitters in financial markets. Whether the new law will lead to a surge in refunds, a modest bump or even a decline could also have political implications.A Treasury Department analysis provided to the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, projects that about four million more filers will have a balance to pay on their taxes this year, and four million fewer will receive refunds, compared what would have been the case under the old withholding system. The Congressional Budget Office said in a budget review last year that it “now expects tax withholding to be lower during fiscal year 2018; that effect will be offset by higher tax payments (or smaller refunds) when taxpayers file their tax returns next spring.”The uncertainty extends to Wall Street.Economists at Morgan Stanley expect that refunds will send savings and spending sharply higher early this year.“For your average taxpayer it’s going to be a record high tax refund season. Much higher than they expected,” said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley.The bank’s economists expect roughly $62 billion in additional tax refunds attributable to changes from the tax overhaul. That would be a 26 percent increase over last year, they said, and they estimate that a burst of refund-related spending should help consumer expenditures grow at a peppy 3 percent annual rate in the first quarter, before slowing sharply in subsequent quarters.At JPMorgan Chase, economists have estimated that there could be a $20 billion increase in refunds this year related to the tax law. But the bank’s economists have also noted the “considerable uncertainty” surrounding the extent of the household benefits from the law. In a recent report, they noted the possibility that all of the tax cut’s benefits for households may have already made their way to taxpayers’ pockets, in the form of lower withholding last year. Such a situation would result in smaller refunds than many might expect.“I’ve seen estimates that are all over the map,” said Michael Feroli, JPMorgan’s chief United States economist.The size of a refund has nothing to do with benefits taxpayers receive from a tax cut — it’s simply the difference between the amount Americans withheld from their paychecks to cover their expected tax bill and the amount they actually owe.Americans generally prefer to have too much withheld, even though that amounts to lending the government money without interest until tax filing season arrives and refunds are sent out. Typically, three-quarters of tax filers receive refunds — including last year, when more than 102 million tax filers got money back.Their refunds totaled nearly $285 billion, with the average refund around $2,800. Americans often spend that cash on relatively big-ticket items such as cars, vacations, household appliances and furniture.A lower refund total would mean that, in the switch to the new tax code, companies and taxpayers made better guesses on how much they actually owe the government. But some Republicans in Washington are privately worried taxpayers might not see it that way and that smaller refunds will cause many Americans to think they were penalized, not helped, by the new tax law.Independent analyses, including by the Tax Policy Center in Washington, project that the vast majority of Americans received a tax cut from the new law in its first year, and only 5 percent saw a tax increase, including some higher-earning Americans in high-tax states who will no longer get as big a state and local tax break. But opinion polls show the law has struggled to attract support from a majority of voters.Some of the taxpayers hit hardest by the law’s changes could also be in for an unwelcome surprise this filing season. Higher-income taxpayers in high-tax states like California, New York and New Jersey could be particularly at risk for an unexpected tax liability, Morgan Stanley analysts estimate. That is because those taxpayers are more likely to have claimed large deductions for state and local taxes paid on their federal returns. Mr. Trump’s tax law capped that deduction, known as S.A.L.T., at $10,000 per household per year.Across the country, unexpectedly large refunds would be a welcome injection of cash into an economy facing a potential slowdown. Business spending tapered in late 2018, and that slowdown most likely worsened as financial markets convulsed in December, weighing on corporate and consumer confidence. The government shutdown is also expected to sap economic growth in the first quarter, since workers and contractors were not paid and vast amounts of government work went undone.Not paying workers drained significant consumer spending power from the economy. Some workers will catch up on their spending once they receive back pay; others, including contractors and business owners that cater to government employees, will have suffered a permanent loss. Federal workers may not be in a rush to spend any money, given the White House and Congress have only given themselves a three-week reprieve to try to resolve the differences that led to the longest shutdown in history.Economists are divided on how much the economy has permanently lost from the shutdown, but many analysts agree that first-quarter growth will be several tenths of a percentage point lower than they had anticipated.“An increase in refunds would be sort of a shot in the arm at the right time, if it came in Q1, early Q2,” Mr. Feroli said. “It would be nice to have consumers sort of have something to smooth over that raw patch.”The recent shutdown-related uncertainty about possible delays in paying out refunds could also counteract some of the traditional economic fuel from refund season, said Ms. Zentner of Morgan Stanley.The shutdown, on the heels of an awful December for the stock market, has already contributed to a recent decline in consumer confidence. Such declines are typically associated with a softening in spending behavior and an increase in savings as consumers brace for a more uncertain future.“When the government is not functioning it’s quite scary for households,” Ms. Zentner said. “You’re just going to pile up on top of another big pile of uncertainty, if their tax refunds are delayed.”One by one, the concerns that have hung over the stock market have faded. Fears that the United States economy would dip into a recession this year have eased. The Federal Reserve seems to be finished raising interest rates for the foreseeable future, and optimism has increased that the United States and China could end their trade war.But if the January snap back (it was the best start to a year for stocks in decades, after the worst December for stocks in an even longer period) is to sustain itself, big technology companies likely will have to lead the way. So far this year, they have not done that. For much of the past decade, the fate of the stock market has been tied to the performance of a handful of the largest tech companies: Amazon, Apple, Alphabet, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix led the market from one record to the next.By the end of August, their sway over the direction of the S&P 500 exceeded all but two of the index’s 11 sector groupings. As the index pushed to a record high last summer, the rise in those six companies’ shares accounted for half of its gain. They led on the way down too, dragging the broader market lower over the final three months of 2018 and nearly ending the longest bull market on record.So it’s notable, then, that as the S&P 500 rallied nearly 8 percent in January, the big technology stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the benchmark’s rise, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices. What happened? The companies have faced a fundamental question since late last year: Could they continue to pull in new users and generate more sales in a slowing global economy? Sales growth had begun to slow in the second half of 2018 and earnings updates in January haven’t fully resolved investors’ concerns about their trajectory. “This is the first quarter in my memory that technology has on the whole had worse metrics than the S&P 500,” said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute, referring to the earnings and revenue growth rate of big technology companies.After Apple warned of diminishing demand for new iPhones in China earlier this year, its forecast for the current quarter wasn’t as dire as many on Wall Street had feared. The stock has gained 7.7 percent since then. Still, the iPhone maker reported a 15 percent drop in revenue, including a 27 percent decline in China, and its results indicated a difficult road ahead. Its stock remains nearly 30 percent below its peak.Amazon reported record profits and revenue. But its shares were down 5.4 percent Friday in part because revenue from online shopping slowed and the growth of Prime memberships appeared to have plateaued.Microsoft shares have fallen 3.4 percent since it reported on Wednesday. Revenue at the software giant has surged in recent years as its bet on cloud computing has paid off, but there were continued signs that that acceleration could be tapering off.Facebook, whose shares were the most battered among the big tech companies last year, was perhaps the bright spot this earnings season. Despite a string of scandals, the social network generated record revenue and profit last year. Its shares have jumped 10.5 percent since Wednesday.Netflix also said revenue would grow more slowly this quarter. Its stock is down almost 3.8 percent since it reported on Jan. 17.There is a big caveat to all the hand-wringing about slowing growth: All five companies still generate huge revenue. And should Beijing and Washington reach an agreement in the trade war, sales could pick up if the global economy, particularly China’s, begins to gain speed. “There was real concern that tech was the canary in the coal mine of what would be a very dark 2019,” said Daniel Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities covering technology companies. “Thus far a lot of those fears are proving overblown. That could set the stage for tech to make new highs this year, depending on what happens with China.”Once again, the Federal Reserve has upended markets.Investors had been bracing for the Fed to keep raising interest rates and shrinking its vast portfolio of assets, the equivalent of tapping on the brakes of the United States economy. But this year, the central bank has signaled that it was backing off.Much has been written about the stock market’s joyful reaction to the Fed’s altered approach. But the impact was much broader than that. The central bank’s shift cascaded through markets around the world in ways large and small. Here’s a look at the consequences of the Fed’s new tone.StocksThe Fed’s change of heart helped halt and partly reverse December’s brutal stock sell-off. On Dec. 24, the S&P 500 was down nearly 20 percent from its recent high. After the Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, began on Jan. 4 to espouse the virtues of patience and flexibility, the market turned sharply higher. The S&P 500 is now up about 15 percent from its nadir in December. Stocks of companies that are sensitive to changes in interest rates have climbed at especially speedy clips. Shares of homebuilders, for example, are up more than 17 percent since the market low in December. That suggests the Fed’s shift has been a big reason for the market’s recent pop. “I think the Fed’s turnaround has been vital to the recovery that we’ve seen in equity markets,” said Tony Roth, chief investment officer at the wealth management firm Wilmington Trust. BondsIn December, stress started to build in the market for corporate bonds. Investors balked at putting money in anything other than super-safe government bonds. One sign of this was a widening of “credits spreads” — the difference between the relatively low yields on government bonds and the relatively high yields on corporate bonds. Since Jan. 4, when the Fed’s swivel began, those credit spreads have fallen sharply. That is largely because the yields on corporate bonds have declined, while those on government debt have barely budged. A big reason for the drop in corporate bond yields is that investors have greater confidence in the United States economy and the ability of American companies to remain financially healthy.Currencies One way to think about the short-term interest rates that the Fed sets is that they are the rates at which investors — or even people with savings accounts or certificates of deposits — get paid for holding American dollars. When the Fed raises rates, and other central banks don’t, those higher United States rates attract capital from around the world. The influx of money pushes up the value of the dollar relative to other currencies. Last year, as the Fed raised interest rates four times and appeared ready to continue in 2019, the dollar rose about 10 percent relative to the euro and other major currencies. The rising value of the dollar has big implications. It makes American manufactured goods more expensive, and therefore less competitive, on the world market. It depresses the overseas earnings of American companies when they get converted back into dollars. And it reduces the prices of commodities, many of which are priced in dollars on global markets. (All else being equal, if the dollar’s value rises, you need fewer dollars to buy the same barrel of oil or ton of iron ore.) The rise in the value of the dollar, along with a supply glut in the world’s oil market, helped push crude oil prices down by more than 40 percent from October to the end of December.When the Fed signaled that it was backing off further rate increases, that slowed the upward momentum of the dollar. In fact, it appeared to put a ceiling on the dollar’s rise, at least for now. That, in turn, is likely to help American companies and strengthen commodity prices. Crude oil prices are up 16 percent in 2019.Emerging MarketsA weaker dollar is also a boon to emerging markets, whose economies often rely on exporting commodities and borrowing money from foreign investors. The weak dollar helps on both counts. With higher commodity prices, it becomes easier for commodity-producing countries and companies to pay off loans, which foreign investors often require to be repaid in dollars. This is a reversal of the 2018 trend, in which the strong dollar provoked a run on emerging markets like Turkey and Argentina, causing the value of their currencies to drop. Money now is flooding back to those developing economies, propelling stock markets in Turkey, Russia and Brazil.The FutureThe question is how durable this relief rally will prove. Even with the Fed’s pro-economic-growth stance, there are plenty of remaining risks to the global economy — and therefore to financial markets. Chief among those is the possibility that huge economies in China, Japan and Germany sputter.“The Fed has applied a Band-Aid onto a broken arm,” said Frances Donald, head of macroeconomic strategy at asset manager Manulife in Toronto. “This is enough to give us a moment to alleviate our worst concerns. But it doesn’t solve the underlying problem, which is a sizable growth slowdown.”WASHINGTON — President Trump in 2018 repeatedly urged the Federal Reserve to stop raising interest rates, warning that its “crazy” policies were jeopardizing the economic expansion.This week, the Fed stopped. The central bank did not raise its benchmark rate at its first meeting of 2019, and said it had no plans to raise rates in the foreseeable future.The Fed’s newfound patience delighted the White House, and Wall Street. It was seen as a concession to the Fed’s critics, and as a boost for an economic expansion that is on the verge of becoming the longest in the nation’s modern history.“We have, by far, the strongest economy in the world!” Mr. Trump exulted Friday morning on Twitter.But the details of the Fed’s decision suggest less cause for celebration.Jerome H. Powell, the Fed’s chairman, said Wednesday that the Fed was pausing not because it embraced Mr. Trump’s argument that the economy was in ruddy health, but because the expansion faced growing threats, including from the impact of Mr. Trump’s own policies.Among these, Mr. Powell listed the trade war with China and the risk of another government shutdown.In effect, the Fed concluded the expansion might not survive the combination of more rate increases and Mr. Trump’s economic policies, so it pulled off the road to reduce the risk of a crash.For the moment, of course, there is little practical difference between the White House view that rates should stay low because the economy is strong and the Fed view that rates should remain low because the economy is fragile. The tension will resume if growth revives.The Fed’s shift also stopped well short of the president’s stated preferences.The central bank still raised rates four times in 2018, in the face of Mr. Trump’s warnings, and Mr. Powell said Wednesday that he thought those increases were warranted. Friday’s report that the economy added 304,000 jobs in January suggests that the Fed hasn’t yet choked the economy.The Fed similarly stopped short of accepting Mr. Trump’s advice that it should “stop with the 50Bs,” referring to its policy of reducing its bond portfolio by about $50 billion each month.While saying it would continue reducing its holdings for now, the Fed was at pains to reassure investors that it stands ready to adjust the policy as necessary and that it is likely to stop sooner than previously expected.Mr. Trump picked Mr. Powell to serve as the Fed’s chairman. But last year, as interest rates rose and the stock market declined, the president repeatedly attacked Fed policy as “crazy,” “wild” and “loco.” He fretted to aides that Mr. Powell would “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the president during the early years of the Great Depression, and he asked aides whether he could replace the chairman.Mr. Trump’s attacks on the Fed are not easily assembled into a coherent critique. But some lieutenants have advanced the argument that the administration’s economic policies are expanding the labor force and increasing productivity, resulting in economic growth without inflation.In this view, the Fed should leave interest rates at a low level to allow the expansion to continue.“My hope is that the Fed, under its new management, understands that more people working and faster economic growth do not cause inflation,” Larry Kudlow, the head of the National Economic Council, said last year. He added that the Fed should increase interest rates “very slowly.”Administration officials also blamed the Fed’s policies for causing the wobbles in financial markets last year.Mr. Powell, by contrast, said on Wednesday that the economic outlook was deteriorating for reasons unrelated to the Fed’s policies. He pointed to storm clouds including economic weakness in China and Europe and tightening financial conditions, as well as the impact of Mr. Trump’s policies.He made the nuanced point that the Fed still regards solid economic growth as the most likely outcome for the coming year but that result is now somewhat less likely.“At such times, common-sense risk management suggests patiently awaiting greater clarity,” he said.The persistent sluggishness of inflation, which has remained below the Fed’s preferred 2 percent annual pace since the 2008 crisis, also played a role. Mr. Powell said the Fed had the luxury of being patient because the risk of higher inflation “appears to have diminished.”“It seems to me that what’s happened is the Fed is saying, ‘We’re more concerned now about the secular stagnation issues than inflation at this moment,’” said Lewis Alexander, the chief United States economist at Nomura. “And I think to be perfectly frank that’s a perfectly reasonable place for them to be.”Analysts said the negative reaction of financial markets after the Fed’s previous meeting, in December, was a particularly important factor. The Fed raised rates and predicted two more increases in 2019. Mr. Powell also emphasized the Fed’s commitment to reducing bond holdings, which some investors saw as overly aggressive.“They were planning on roaring forward with this balance sheet roll-off, and the market is like: ‘Oh, my God! That will crush the economy!’” said Julia Coronado, a former Fed economist and the president of MacroPolicy Perspectives. “And so they recalibrated. Good.”Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief economic adviser at the financial firm Allianz, said the Fed’s decision Wednesday “came as absolutely no surprise.” Since the global financial crisis, he said, the Fed has backed down each time investors objected to the tightening of monetary policy.Among those moments: the 2013 “taper tantrum” and the decision to postpone rate increases in 2016.“It’s watching the same movie over and over again,” he said.The question, Mr. El-Erian said, is whether the Fed should be listening to the markets.“If you believe that the market is signaling something genuine about the economy that the Fed has not yet understood, then it’s not a bad thing,” he said. “If, however, you believe that the market has gotten used to having the Fed as its rich uncle, then this is a bad thing.”Some Fed officials appear more receptive to the kind of arguments advanced by Mr. Kudlow, notably Richard Clarida, who became the Fed’s vice chairman in September and said in a November speech that he saw some signs of a stronger trend in productivity growth.Other Fed officials said last summer, when there were fewer risks to the economic outlook, that the central bank should keep raising rates into restrictive territory to slow what they saw as unsustainable growth.Mr. Powell has sought to push the question into the future, suggesting he is open to either possibility. He has said the Fed will not respond to wage growth as a sufficient sign of inflationary pressure. Similarly, he said Wednesday that evidence of inflation would be a “big part” of any case for more rate increases.The problem for Mr. Powell is that monetary policy exerts a gradual influence on economic conditions, meaning that policymakers must calibrate policy based on forecasts.Sooner or later, Mr. Powell will need to decide what he thinks about Trumponomics.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Within minutes of the stock market’s opening trades on Tuesday, Apple had reclaimed the title of most valuable American company for the first time in more than two months.By around midday, Microsoft had taken back the top spot. And so the day went, the two tech titans going back and forth, until trading ended with Microsoft the leader at a market value of $823 billion.The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year. The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results. And Alphabet (Google’s parent company) has lurked not far behind the whole time.The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years. Apple passed Exxon Mobil to become the most valuable company in the United States almost eight years ago, and after 2012 it held on, largely unchallenged, for six years.The company’s ascension was a precursor to Big Tech’s takeover of the stock market. Investors scooped up shares of the largest tech companies, believing their sales growth was unassailable, and by the second half of 2016, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet and Apple were the five most valuable companies in the S&P 500.But investors’ faith in Big Tech began to weaken last year. Apple fell hard as signs of a mature mobile phone market, a softening global economy and a trade war between China and the United States raised doubts about the company’s ability to sell more iPhones.Nearly $450 billion was wiped off its market value — an amount greater than all but six companies in the S&P 500.Shares of the other tech titans fell as well. But Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet have fared far better than Apple and the broader market over the past year, as bets by the first two — and, to a lesser extent, by Alphabet — on cloud computing drove a surge in revenue.Microsoft and Apple, which has recovered some of its losses since it reported earnings last week, are both valued at a little more than $820 billion. Behind them are Amazon, at $815 billion, and Alphabet, at $797 billion.In fifth place is Warren E. Buffett’s investment conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway. But with a market value of $511 billion, it is far behind.Good Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A ‘chip dip’ threatens Big Tech’s cloutFrom Apple to Nvidia, tech companies say that business is slowing. What’s happening?Big tech companies are reporting lackluster results. Weak Chinese consumer demand blew a $9 billion hole in Apple’s latest quarterly sales. Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations. Intel’s January financials didn’t meet forecasts. And Samsung’s sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter.Behind the trend: semiconductors. “China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand,” write David Streitfeld and Don Clark of the NYT. With chip manufacturers predicting slumping sales for 2019, tech more generally could be in line for a slowdown.Sound familiar? “The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust,” write Mr. Streitfeld and Mr. Clark.And the industry no longer carries the stock market. For years, stock market performance have been tied to the fortunes of the largest tech companies: Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix. As the S&P 500 pushed to a record high last summer, rises in those six companies’ share prices accounted for half of its gain. But when the index rallied nearly 8 percent in January, Stephen Grocer writes, their stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the rise.Lloyd Blankfein may pay for Goldman’s links to 1MDBThe former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. — as well as his successor, David Solomon, and other top executives — may have to give back some compensation from 2018, depending on the findings of an investigation into the firm’s work with the scandal-ridden Malaysian investment fund 1MDB.The announcement, made in a regulatory filing on Friday, shows how seriously Goldman is treating any role it may have had in fraud committed at 1MDB. Prosecutors in the U.S. and Malaysia are leading criminal investigations into 1MDB, and a former top deal maker at the firm has pleaded guilty to bribery, conspiracy and money laundering charges. Goldman says it’s cooperating with authorities.The WSJ calculates that Mr. Blankfein, who stepped down as chief executive of Goldman last year, might lose millions. And though Mr. Solomon wasn’t a top-ranking Goldman executive at the time, he could see some of his $23 million pay for last year clawed back as well. (Gary Cohn, who was Goldman’s No. 2 during the 1MDB work and received a lump payout when he left the firm in 2017, wouldn’t be affected.)In lighter Goldman news: Mr. Solomon, whose side hustle is DJing as DJ D-Sol, has released his second single, “Feel Alive.”Deutsche Bank refused Trump a loan in 2016For two decades, Deutsche Bank was the only major lender to give Donald Trump money, helping him finance his real estate operations. But when he sought a loan in early 2016 to help pay for a Scottish golf course — all while running for president — the German lender said no.More from David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Ben Protess of the NYT:Senior officials at the bank, including its future chief executive, believed that Mr. Trump’s divisive candidacy made such a loan too risky, the people said. Among their concerns was that if Mr. Trump won the election and then defaulted, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between not collecting on the debt or seizing the assets of the president of the United States.What’s next: Expect House Democrats to include this in their investigation of Mr. Trump’s finances.More Deutsche Bank news: The lender reportedly scrambled to rid itself of a $600 million loan made to VTB, a Russian state-owned bank, in late 2016 as the German bank sought to reduce its exposure to Russian entities.How an S.U.V. became a Brexit warning signThe automaker Nissan confirmed yesterday that it had abandoned plans to build its new X-Trail sport utility vehicle in Britain and said that the car would be produced solely in Japan. It’s a blow for the British economy, and a clear signal that uncertainty over Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. is weighing on corporate minds.A clear culprit. “The continued uncertainty around the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. is not helping companies like ours to plan for the future,” Nissan’s Europe chairman, Gianluca de Ficchy, said in a statement. Greg Clark, Britain’s business secretary, told the FT that it was “a warning sign” about how much damage could be caused by a no-deal Brexit.Nissan is not alone. British C.F.O.s say that Brexit is currently the largest threat to their businesses. Some 78 percent of those surveyed said that the business environment in the nation would deteriorate if Britain left the E.U.What now? Prime Minister Theresa May is set to return to Brussels in the coming days in an attempt to redraft her Brexit deal. In the meantime, Bloomberg reports that she “will launch a new government working group intended to unite the feuding pro- and anti-Brexit factions” in her party.The oil field that made American oil greatThe U.S. is now the top oil producer in the world, able to sway petroleum prices and breezily sanction Iran and Venezuela. The reason, as Cliff Krauss of the NYT notes: the Permian Basin, the heart of America’s shale industry.How big is it? It covers the same area as South Dakota, and produces four million barrels of oil a day — making it a bigger generator of oil than any member of OPEC other than Iraq and Saudi Arabia.What makes it special? It’s huge and rich in oil rather than in less-valuable natural gas. And it’s close to refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.What could go wrong? Oil companies there might pump too much, drawing ire from OPEC. As Scott Sheffield, the chairman of Pioneer Natural Resources, told the NYT: “You could have another price war.” And U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan crude could hurt American refineries, which can’t rely solely on the Permian.Hungry for ‘executive time’ in your calendar? Study Trump’s schedule and weepAxios has published almost three months of President Trump’s schedules after they were leaked, reportedly by somebody in the White House. Some highlights:• “Trump has spent around 60 percent of his scheduled time over the past three months in unstructured ‘Executive Time.’ ”• “He spends his mornings in the residence, watching TV, reading the papers, and responding to what he sees and reads by phoning aides, members of Congress, friends, administration officials and informal advisers,” six people with direct knowledge of his schedule told Axios.• “Trump’s first meeting of the day — usually around 11 or 11:30 a.m. — is often an intelligence briefing or a 30-minute meeting with the chief of staff.”• “The president sometimes has meetings during Executive Time that he doesn’t want most West Wing staff to know about for fear of leaks. And his mornings sometimes include calls with heads of state, political meetings and meetings with counsel in the residence, which aren’t captured on these schedules.”Bonus: Axios also compared the schedules with those of Mr. Trump’s predecessors. He appears to share most in common with Bill Clinton’s early days in office.2019’s Super Bowl ads: nostalgia, wokeness and depressing techO.K., so the game itself may have been a slog to watch, and the halftime show was forgettable. But for those of you who came for the ads, here are the themes that dominated — to the tune of $5.2 million per 30 seconds of airtime.The ’90s: Stella Artois featured Carrie Bradshaw from “Sex and the City” and the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Doritos put the Backstreet Boys front and center.Social consciousness: The dating app Bumble hired Serena Williams to urge women to “make the first move” in all parts of their lives. And Budweiser touted renewable energy in an ad featuring a cute dog.The downsides of tech: Olay’s spot showed the actress Sarah Michelle Gellar struggling to save herself from a home intruder when her phone’s facial-recognition software fails. An ad for Pringles featured a smart speaker bemoaning its existence. And TurboTax built an ad around a robot boy craving a late-night snack.Revolving doorApple reportedly removed Bill Stasior as the head of its Siri virtual assistant unit, though he remains at the company.Gianni Infantino is poised to win a second term as president of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body.SoftBank of Japan hired Sarah Lubman, most recently a partner at the Brunswick Group, as a partner in corporate communications.The speed readDeals• Spotify is said to be in talks to buy the podcasting company Gimlet Media. (NYT)• The drug companies Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene will pay about $304 million in fees to their investment banks for arranging their $74 billion union. (FT)• KKR is said to be weighing a sale of the chip-making equipment unit of Hitachi Kokusai. (FT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund is in talks to invest up to $1.5 billion in Guazi.com, a Chinese used-car sales platform. (Reuters)• Maoyan Entertainment, a Chinese movie-ticket giant, fell 2.7 percent in its Hong Kong stock debut on Monday, the latest flubbed I.P.O. by a Chinese tech company. (Reuters)Politics and policy• The senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders have proposed limiting corporate stock buybacks. (NYT Op-Ed)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, reintroduced legislation aimed at strengthening enforcement of antitrust laws. (Reuters)• Michael Bloomberg is said to be reconsidering running for president as Democratic primary voters appear to be favoring more liberal contenders. (Axios)• President Trump declined to commit to making public any final report by the special prosecutor Robert Mueller. (NYT)Trade• Chinese state-owned firms bought a million tons of American soybeans on Friday, a day after talks on a trade deal between Beijing and Washington yielded progress. (NYT)• Despite a possible U.S.-China agreement, global trade continues to suffer. (WSJ)• European investment funds are worried about their ability to trade dual-listed stocks like those of Unilever and Shell if Britain leaves the E.U. without a deal. (FT)Tech• Venture capitalists are telling start-ups to stockpile cash ahead of a potential economic slowdown. (FT)• Meet the man behind the egg picture that became Instagram’s most-liked image. Surprise: He works in advertising. (NYT)• Cisco wants a U.S. version of Europe’s strict new data privacy rules. (FT)• How lawmakers plan to update tech in Congress — including its 2000-era internet connections. (WSJ)• Foxconn said it was still committed to building a factory in Wisconsin. (NYT)• It’s not just you: Captchas — which you complete to prove you’re not a robot — have gotten far harder. (Verge)Best of the rest• Vice Media plans to lay off 250 workers. Here’s what went wrong for the company and for other digital news organizations like BuzzFeed. (FT, NYT)• McKinsey advised the maker of OxyContin on how to “turbocharge” opioid sales, a lawsuit alleges. (NYT)• Why taxing the wealthy is so hard. (NYT)• Gains from President Trump’s corporate tax cuts aren’t as impressive as they first appeared. (WSJ)• How China got MSCI to add its market to one of the world’s best-known global benchmarks. (WSJ)• Ikea plans to test furniture leasing. (FT)• Hershey blames manufacturing processes for missing tips on its Kisses. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Late last month, chip giant Advanced Micro Devices reported disappointing financial results for the fourth quarter and warned that its first-quarter performance would be weaker than expected. The stock surged 20 percent.A couple of days later, General Electric reported one of its skimpiest quarterly profits of the century, badly missing analysts’ forecasts. The company’s stock posted its biggest jump in nearly a decade.In recent weeks, numerous companies — including Wynn Resorts, Ford and JPMorgan Chase — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally. Corporate America — and its shareholders — are the beneficiaries of a sudden improvement in the markets’ mood in the past two months. And that new optimism could keep propelling stocks higher, analysts said. With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.The outlook was much gloomier in December. At the end of last year, the prospect of a trade war, higher interest rates, a slowing global economy and political dysfunction soured Wall Street’s attitude. Investors dumped shares at the faintest whiff of tougher times ahead.Now, they’re buying even though corporate earnings have been relatively weak, with fewer companies beating Wall Street expectations than in recent quarters. The S&P 500 is up roughly 5 percent since companies started reporting results in middle of January. Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade, according to data from Bespoke Investment Group, a stock market research firm. “The market is being unbelievably kind,” said Jonathan Golub, chief United States equity strategist at Credit Suisse.The dynamic has also been a boon for companies whose financial results missed the mark. In recent years, the shares of companies whose profits or sales numbers didn’t beat Wall Street’s expectations lagged behind the broader market by 3.5 percentage points in the trading day that followed. This year, they have trailed by only 1.1 percentage points, according to analysis from Credit Suisse.Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon. That’s been bolstered by the Fed’s recent shift to a wait-and-see approach on future interest rate increases.Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed. “I would say the market is still pricing in flat-to-negative earnings growth,” said Binky Chadha, chief U.S. equity and global strategist at Deutsche Bank in New York. “So we basically see room for the relief rally to continue.”At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results. Advanced Micro Devices’ results were weighed down by sluggish sales of graphics-processing chips designed for consumer products, a further indication that Chinese consumers have pulled back on tech spending. The same Chinese slowdown hurt Ford’s results, which fell just short of Wall Street expectations. “The industry really fell off very, very sharply,” said Robert Shanks, the automaker’s chief financial officer. The company’s shares rose 3 percent. The strong economic growth of mid-2018 — the stock market soared, hiring picked up and consumer spending surged — reflected, in part, the benefits of a boost in fiscal stimulus. The Trump administration pushed for, and got, a huge tax cut, and then, to give the economy even more oomph, Congress passed budgets for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 that included a rare bipartisan agreement to juice spending for defense and social programs. But the effects of all that stimulus are starting to wane, and problems are emerging that make a recession in 2020 look more and more likely.Over the next few days, as American companies report earnings for 2018, the effects of all that spending will be clear: Corporate tax cuts increased profits last year, and those results will be hard to beat this year. The tax cuts were supposed to trigger an increase in investment, productivity growth and profit margins — which might have nourished future growth — but that failed to materialize. Instead, big corporations authorized a record-breaking $1 trillion in stock buybacks in 2018, according to Goldman Sachs, and made good on those announcements by returning their tax cuts to shareholders. Sure, the buybacks bumped up stock prices, but that proved fleeting, especially after the tax increases, supply-chain disruptions and uncertainty associated with tariffs and trade tensions.Individuals, too, are likely to be disappointed this year, when tax refunds as a result of the 2017 tax legislation fail to meet expectations. Many people did not withhold enough to accommodate changes in the laws, a confusion that is compounded by understaffing at the Internal Revenue Service and delays created by the just-ended government shutdown. Americans count on those refunds to pay down debt and finance big-ticket purchases. When that money isn’t forthcoming, they may be disappointed and angry. Finally, the United States isn’t likely to see any further increase in government spending — an important source of last year’s stimulus — in the current fiscal year. The Republicans have regained religion about deficits since they blew a hole in the budget with tax cuts, while former Tea Party Republicans are looking for cuts to agencies and social programs. The result is that federal spending is expected to decline later this year, and those losses will compound as we move into 2020.The length of the shutdown — 35 days — is also important, as federal employees try to catch up with assignments they missed during that time. The only benchmark for comparison was the 21-day shutdown from December 1995 to January 1996. Then, as now, contractors were especially hard hit; it can take weeks or months to get up and running again. Some of their losses were never recouped. But in 1995 and early 1996, the Federal Reserve made a cut to short-term interest rates, giving an extra lift to the economy once the shutdown ended. The tech bubble was also forming. The subsequent jump in financial markets was so powerful that it prompted Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman at the time, to worry openly about “irrational exuberance.”No one is really worried about exuberance, rational or otherwise, right now. Government spending is playing out, the Fed has been sidelined and doesn’t have a lot of room to cut rates, global growth is slowing and political leaders at home and abroad are at one another’s throats. All that has raised the risk of a 2020 recession.Before that happens, Congress and the president should do whatever they can to sustain economic growth, while we still have growth to sustain. I have been a fiscal hawk my entire professional career, and I don’t usually support deficits in times of prosperity. But there is a small window of opportunity for policymakers to act, while interest rates remain low and we have some wiggle room on taxes. Once a slowdown begins, tax revenues fall, automatic stabilizers such as unemployment insurance kick in, and the need for social services and short-term stimulus intensifies. Then, it may be more difficult to carry out the large-scale investments we need to fundamentally lift long-term growth.For now, the United States can actually afford to pay for investments in its economy. The most important investment is human capital, such as education and training for workers, but spending for that is controlled primarily by state and local governments, not Washington. Federal policymakers do have the power to invest in repairing and upgrading infrastructure, paid for by gradual increases in taxes. This has the potential to increase productivity growth, stimulate more private investment, gain bipartisan support and connect, instead of further divide, rural and urban Americans.Even that may not be enough to generate the investment desperately needed in the private sector, if the uncertainty in Washington isn’t resolved. That requires a heavier political lift. There is a major test coming up. Congress has the power to avert another government shutdown on Feb. 15, even if a border security compromise doesn’t satisfy the president. If Congress exerts its authority, that will represent an important step in the right direction.Diane Swonk is the chief economist for the audit, tax and advisory firm Grant Thornton.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Breaking down the speechIn his 82-minute address last night, President Trump cited U.S. economic growth and his efforts to keep it up, while attacking opponents in a speech that ostensibly called for unity in Washington. Here are the highlights for the business world:Mr. Trump defended his economic record. He took credit for America’s robust economic health — a key message for his 2020 re-election campaign — and assailed critiques of his administration’s efforts, including tax cuts and loosened regulations. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations,” he said.He kept pressure on China. Mr. Trump promoted his administration’s trade battle with Beijing, saying, “We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end.” Talks between Washington and Beijing over a compromise are continuing.And he painted his potential rivals as socialists. As Democratic presidential contenders promote policies like Medicare for all, Mr. Trump tried to paint them as peddlers of dangerous ideas. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said.What didn’t he talk about? “Trump’s speech was notable for what he did not mention, including the ballooning federal debt, once a centerpiece of the Republican agenda; nor did he talk about Social Security, Medicare or other entitlements,” Philip Rucker and Toluse Olorunnipa of the WaPo write. Democrats fought back. Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for Georgia’s governorship last year, focused on “outlining the party’s vision for lower health care costs and a more inclusive immigration policy, and pressing her case that access to the voting booth should be easier, not harder.”Goldman may shrink its onetime trading powerhouseSteep cuts could hit Goldman Sachs’s commodities arm, which once generated huge profits for the firm, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.What may happen: “Executives are discussing pulling back from trading iron ore, platinum and other metals, and are ordering cost cuts to the sprawling logistics network that handles the transport and storage of physical commodities,” Ms. Hoffman writes.The context: The business was once one of Wall Street’s most envied money makers. But such trading has suffered in recent years, thanks to changing markets and tighter regulations. And Goldman’s current C.E.O., David Solomon, cut his teeth as an investment banker and is focused on operations like lending and asset management.The symbolism: “By taking a knife to the business, Mr. Solomon is sending a message down the ranks that nothing is sacred,” Ms. Hoffman writes.Why are stocks rising on mediocre earnings?In recent weeks, several companies — including Ford, G.E., JPMorgan Chase and Wynn Resorts — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally, writes Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade.”• “With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.”• “Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon.”• “Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed.”• “At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results.”A peek inside Wisconsin’s disastrous deal with FoxconnWhen the Chinese electronics manufacturer Foxconn decided to set up shop in the Midwest, President Trump hailed the move as “one of the great deals ever.” But Bloomberg Businessweek, which interviewed 49 people familiar with the project, reports how badly the effort has gone.The plan was to create a high-tech manufacturing hub. It was to be led by a Mount Pleasant plant housing a large chunk of Foxconn’s LCD TV production. “As Foxconn has discovered, there is no better place to build, hire, and grow than right here in the U.S.,” Mr. Trump said at the time, promising that it would create as many as 13,000 jobs.But manufacturing hasn’t taken off. “LCD components weren’t made in the U.S.A., according to sources familiar with the operation,” Austin Carr of Businessweek writes. “They were shipped from a Foxconn factory in Tijuana. The Wisconsin plant was only handling the last steps of assembly.” He adds that “during 2018, the company tried and failed to produce its own LCD materials at scale in Wisconsin so it wouldn’t have to import them from Mexico.”Nor has pay or recruitment. “Pay at the factory started at about $14 an hour with no benefits, much less than the $23 average Foxconn promised. Many people weren’t hired full time,” Mr. Carr writes. “Last fall, the company’s hiring targets began dropping internally,” he adds, with Foxconn importing foreign staff for some roles.Tracking the biggest public company? Good luckKeeping hold of the title of most valuable American company is proving to be difficult, Stephen Grocer of the NYT writes:• “The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year.”• “The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results.”• “The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years.”Blankfein vs. Sanders over stock buybacksA bill introduced by Senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock drew outrage from many in the corporate world — and tempted Goldman Sachs’s former C.E.O. Lloyd Blankfein to tweet for the first time in nearly seven months.Mr. Blankfein’s take: “A company used to be encouraged to return money to shareholders when it couldn’t reinvest in itself for a good return,” he tweeted. “The money doesn’t vanish, it gets reinvested in higher growth businesses that boost the economy and jobs. Is that bad?”Mr. Sanders’s retort: The senator shot back that a buyback, “increases the wealth of billionaires” like Mr. Blankfein. “Instead of making the very rich even richer, how about increasing wages for American workers. Is that a bad idea?”More buyback news: SoftBank of Japan plans to spend $5.5 billion of proceeds from the listing of its telecommunications arm to repurchase stock.Taxpayers paid almost $1 million a day for Trump’s Mar-a-Lago tripsThe Government Accountability Office has published a report of the president’s travel expenses, which show the cost of his visits to his Florida holiday home:• From Feb. 3 to March 5 in 2017, Mr. Trump spent portions of 14 days at the holiday home. The G.A.O. said that those trips had cost a total of $13.6 million, or just less than $1 million per day.• The costs included travel and accommodations, Secret Service expenses and bomb detection. Almost $60,000 was paid directly to Mar-a-Lago.• The Democratic senators Dianne Feinstein and Gary Peters, who requested the report, said the findings provide “a snapshot of the tens of millions of dollars President Trump spends to travel to his Palm Beach resort — all at taxpayer expense — including government funds that are paid directly to a business in which the president himself has a financial interest.”Revolving doorAngela Ahrendts will step down as Apple’s retail chief in April after a five-year run. She’ll be succeeded by Deirdre O’Brien, the company’s head of human resources.SeaWorld Entertainment said it would hire Gus Antorcha, who was most recently Carniva Cruise Line’s chief operating officer, as its new C.E.O.Goldman Sachs promoted Nick Giovanni to co-head of its global tech, media and telecom investment banking team.The speed readDeals• Reddit is reportedly raising as much as $300 million in fresh capital at a valuation of about $2.7 billion. (TechCrunch)• Tyson Foods has reportedly held talks to buy Foster Farms, a producer of chicken products, for about $2 billion. (CNBC)• Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil plan to invest $10 billion in a Texas hub for exporting natural gas. (NYT)• The activist investor Edward Bramson has renewed his push for a seat on the board of Barclays. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft led a $250 million investment in Databricks, a self-professed “boring A.I.” start-up, at a $2.75 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Spotify has struck deals to buy Gimlet Media, the podcast production company, and Anchor, a start-up that helps people make their own podcasts. (Recode)• The E.U. has blocked a merger of the rail divisions of Siemens and Alstom, saying the deal reduced competition too much. (European Commission)Politics and policy• Imaad Zuberi, a venture capitalist and longtime Democratic donor who later gave to Republicans after the 2016 campaign, has drawn scrutiny in a federal inquiry into President Trump’s inauguration. (NYT)• Federal prosecutors are investigating foreign payments to three law and lobbying firms — Mercury Public Affairs; the Podesta Group; and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom — recruited by Paul Manafort. (NYT)• A bipartisan group of senators proposed reimposing sanctions on ZTE if the Chinese telecom company again violates U.S. laws. (CNBC)• The Trump administration has sought to shore up support for its pick to lead the World Bank, David Malpass, ahead of an expected announcement of the nomination today. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump plans to meet with Kim Jong-un of North Korea in Vietnam later this month to revive their nuclear-weapons talks. (NYT)Trade• The Chinese government says that a U.S. report on its compliance with World Trade Organization rules is incorrect. (Reuters)• The U.S. has become Britain’s top oil supplier for the first time since the Suez crisis in 1956. (FT)• U.S. soybean farmers say they don’t share President Trump’s optimism about the sale of their crops to China. (Business Insider)Tech• France ordered Apple to pay back taxes that could amount to hundreds of millions of euros. (FT)• Snap’s stock price jumped over 20 percent after disclosing record revenues — but Bloomberg warns that “not performing terrible is not the same as performing well.” (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Huawei could face a 5G ban in Canada. (Bloomberg)• China’s economic slowdown is hurting its tech start-ups. (WSJ)• Facebook has taken down 22 more pages linked to the Infowars founder Alex Jones. And here’s an antitrust argument for blocking the social network’s plan to integrate its messaging services. (Recode, NYT Op-Ed)• Tesla has again cut the price of its cheapest Model 3, this time by $1,100. (CNBC)Best of the rest• Deutsche Bank says that the German economy is inching toward recession. (Bloomberg)• Blackstone is pulling back on plans to invest billions of dollars across Africa. It has also started a fight with an Italian media mogul. (WSJ, FT)• Some central banks have gold fever, and that might actually be sensible. (Breakingviews)• Walt Disney revealed its plans for a new service to rival Netflix. And the BBC and Discovery have joined forces for a streaming service focused on wildlife shows. (WSJ, FT)• The Federal Reserve will include high unemployment in its 2019 stress test scenarios for big banks. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault aren’t done feuding in the wake of the Carlos Ghosn scandal. (WSJ)• Business leaders should revisit their yearbooks in light of the Ralph Northam scandal. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.William H. Gross, the “Bond King,” is going into retirement.Mr. Gross, who co-founded the investment firm Pimco in 1971 and built it into a $2 trillion colossus, entertained investors with quirky pronouncements over many decades. He left unceremoniously in a nasty dispute in 2014, and joined Janus Henderson Investments, which announced his retirement on Monday.“I’ve had a wonderful ride for over 40 years in my career,” he said in a statement, “trying at all times to put client interests first while inventing and reinventing active bond management along the way.”At Pimco, Mr. Gross controlled more bond money than anyone in the world. He advised the Treasury on the role of subprime mortgage bonds in the dark days of the financial crisis, and his colorful metaphors often enlivened the otherwise dreary discourse about fixed-income investing.In 2011, for example, he told me that investors were like complacent frogs sitting in a pot of slowly heating water.“Bond investors are receiving almost nothing for their money, and the situation is getting worse and worse,” he said. “But they’ve gotten used to it. They don’t realize how bad it is. And before they know it, well, they’ll be cooked.”His utterances in those days often moved markets, and his early-morning yoga ritual at Newport Beach, Calif., was widely chronicled.Early in his tenure at Pimco, Mr. Gross was known as a skillful bond trader who pioneered the use of mathematical models to eke out steady profits. He also gained fame as an analyst of broad economic trends, which he used to inform the firm’s investment strategy.He had a homespun style that he used in books aimed at a popular audience, like “Everything You’ve Heard About Investing Is Wrong!: How to Profit in the Coming Post-Bull Markets.” In that 1997 book, he said the solid returns produced by bonds would shield investors from the disappointments of the busts that inevitably followed boom markets in stocks.But Mr. Gross has not been a dominant figure in finance since he was forced out of Pimco amid accusations that he had mismanaged the firm, where he was a co-chief investment officer. Mr. Gross and Pimco settled a lawsuit over the dispute in 2017.While he set high expectations for himself, his second career at Janus Henderson was not impressive.In a 2016 interview with The New York Times, he said explicitly that he viewed himself as competing directly with the fund managers at Pimco. “My whole evening is dependent on whether I beat them,” he said. “You see, I have to prove it all over again. Every day.”Yet a quick look at the numbers suggests he may have been disheartened by his recent performance. Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained.Through most of Mr. Gross’s time at Pimco, however, his performance was splendid. In the 15 years through February 2014, for example, Pimco Total Return posted an annualized gain of 6.68 percent, versus 5.19 percent for the average intermediate-term bond fund. And his risk-adjusted returns over the long term were much better than average.Over the past 20 years, Janus Henderson said, Mr. Gross had donated $800 million to various philanthropies. He will continue to manage his own assets, which are considerable, and those of his family foundation, which is valued at $390 million.Although he was often revered as something of an oracle in his years at Pimco, his frequent pronouncements on the state of the markets and the economy were not always on the mark, even in his heyday.In May 2009, when the stock market was just entering a bull market that has lasted nearly 10 years, Mr. Gross told me that the market rested on precarious foundations. He warned against “jumping into a stock market that’s 35 percent higher than it was three months ago.”He predicted moderate “single-digit returns” for the next decade, well short of the double-digit returns that stock investors actually received.Good Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.“At halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations”President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________A reminder to Facebook and Google: Don’t mess with AppleFacebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.A Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank merger seems increasingly likelyDeutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.Expect ambiguity in the jobs dataThe Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Earnings reports show looming challengesInvestors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Revolving DoorIntel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Speed ReadsDeals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The government shutdown and the late 2018 stock market tumult eroded confidence in the economy among business owners and consumers alike last month.Now that the stock market has rallied and the government has reopened, will optimism about the economy rebound, or is the recent slide an indication of a more lasting shift?In January, both the National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism index for small businesses and the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to their lowest levels since at least November 2016. And the Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence posted its steepest decline over the past few months since 2011.Those three indexes had jumped in the months after Donald J. Trump was elected president on optimism that his pro-business agenda of reduced taxes and regulation would ignite economic growth. The indexes peaked last year as the stock market marched to record highs, and despite the recent pullback, they remain at historically elevated levels.Businesses, policymakers and investors often use sentiment surveys to evaluate the direction of the economy. If confidence is high, the thinking goes, business owners and consumers are more likely to open their wallets to make purchases, hire employees and expand their operations. If those same groups are worried about the future, they are more likely to curtail their spending.But upward swings in sentiment do not necessarily translate into increased spending and economic growth. The economy, for instance, remained sluggish for more than a year after consumer and business confidence jumped in the months after the 2016 election.Such indexes are also sensitive to short-term moves in the stock market and political developments that have little effect on spending.Indications that sentiment is set to rebound are beginning to appear. Economic confidence recovered in a poll conducted in early February for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey.The University of Michigan releases a preliminary version of its survey roughly halfway through each month and then its final report at the end. Last month, the final figure, although the lowest since October 2016, showed a slight uptick from the preliminary version, which was released during the shutdown. Also, the survey’s personal financial expectations index, considered a better indicator of household spending than the overall index, held up during the period.The university will release its preliminary consumer sentiment index for February on Friday.The report on small-business sentiment also offered reasons to think the slide in confidence may be temporary. Within the index, expectations among business owners about their sales and the overall economy had the biggest declines. But those segments typically have been the most sensitive to gyrations in the stock markets.Meanwhile, expectations for business spending, which had slid sharply since August, stopped declining.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Fears of a looming United States recession have subsided, with investors taking comfort that the Federal Reserve will continue to support economic growth.But warning signs keep flashing about the shaky fundamentals of the economy and therefore the stock market. The latest alarm bell is that Wall Street analysts are slicing their forecasts for how much big companies will earn in the months ahead.Halfway through the first quarter of the year, analysts now expect profits of companies in the S&P 500 to decline by 1.7 percent from the same period last year, according to data from John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet.That is a sharp reversal from the start of 2019, when the same analysts predicted that corporate earnings would rise by 3.3 percent compared with the first quarter of 2018. And in October, before the stock markets entered a downward spiral at the end of the year, analysts had anticipated that first-quarter earnings would leap by 6.6 percent.Corporate profits are by no means a perfect proxy for the health of the United States economy, the world’s largest. But they exert heavy influence over the direction of the stock markets.In the first nine months of last year, for example, an unexpected gusher of company earnings — up 20 percent from their previous levels — powered the S&P 500 to record highs. The fat bottom lines allowed investors to look past both the prospect of a trade war between the United States and China and a number of data points that showed large foreign economies, including Japan and Germany, losing steam.Even in the final three months of 2018, as the United States appeared to be skidding into an economic recession, corporate profits leapt higher. Not all companies have disclosed their fourth-quarter results yet, but they are on track to be up 13.3 percent from 2017.It isn’t unusual for analysts to pare back their earnings forecasts over the course of a quarter. Corporate executives offer guidance about how their businesses are performing, and a variety of macroeconomic data helps analysts hone their profit projections. Over the past decade, analysts’ profit forecasts have declined on average by 3.7 percent over the course of a full quarter.On Dec. 31, analysts expected companies in the S&P 500 to earn, on average, $40.21 per share. Today, that estimate is $37.95 — an unusually large 5.6 percent drop, according to FactSet.If companies’ first-quarter performances turn out to be as weak as analysts expect, the United States will be on track for what the financial community calls an earnings recession, which occurs when corporate profits shrink for two straight quarters.That looks increasingly likely to happen in the first half of this year. Analysts expect earnings to rise by just 1.2 percent in the second quarter. That forecast is likely to fall, perhaps into negative territory, as more companies disclose their results and analysts update their forecasting models.The S&P 500 last endured an earnings recession in 2015 and 2016. It was set off in large part by tumbling oil prices, which eroded the profits of energy companies. During that period, a six-year stock market rally stalled, and the S&P 500 twice fell by more than 10 percent.Corporate profits this year were always going to face a difficult comparison with 2018. The combination of a strong United States economy and the newly reduced corporate tax rates led earnings to jump more than 20 percent.But profits are now under pressure on multiple fronts, and there are no new tax cuts to cushion the blow — an ill omen for the stock market, if not the broader economy. Rising costs and a slowing global economy, in particular in China, have caused many S&P 500 companies to reduce their profit outlooks for 2019.That is especially true among technology companies. Analysts expect them to report a nearly 10 percent decline in profits in the first quarter, the biggest decline of any sector in the S&P 500.Much of the blame for the tech sector’s declining fortunes rests with Apple. The company warned in early January that it was seeing diminished demand for new iPhones in China. When it reported earnings, Apple said it expected sales of $55 billion to $59 billion in the current quarter, below analysts’ expectations for $59 billion.Since the end of last year, analysts have cut by nearly 19 percent their estimates for how much Apple will earn in the first three months of the year.Federal Reserve officials decided in late January to pause their steady campaign to raise interest rates as the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened, according to the minutes of that meeting released on Wednesday.Fed officials concluded that a pause posed “few risks” for a strong economy in which prices continued to increase at a subdued rate, the minutes show. The Fed did not see any immediate threats to America’s economic expansion, but officials indicated they were worried enough about potential risks — including slowing growth in China and Europe, trade tensions, a volatile stock market and a prolonged government shutdown — to postpone rate increases.Whether the Fed will raise rates at all in 2019 remains unclear. The minutes show a divergence among Fed officials, with “several” saying they believed it would be appropriate to raise rates again later this year “if the economy evolved as they expected.” Others were less eager to resume the increases, particularly if inflation remained below the Fed’s 2 percent target.James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, suggested to reporters this month that the Fed had gone too far with rate increases last year. Other officials have said in recent days they expect rate increases to resume, a view the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland president, Loretta J. Mester, expressed in a speech this week.Markets found little new information in the minutes. The S&P 500, which had been negative earlier in the day, rose slightly. Treasury bond yields barely budged.The January meeting was a departure by the Fed from what had been a slow and steady march toward higher rates and less stimulative monetary policy amid a strengthening economy. After five consecutive quarters of raising rates, Fed officials left them unchanged in January, as expected. But they surprised markets in the policy statement released after the meeting, which dropped previous language that said “some further gradual increases” in interest rates would be warranted in the months to come.That shift appears to have been, in part, a corrective note to financial markets, which officials believed had turned volatile in December on the belief that Fed officials were not sufficiently worried about economic uncertainty at home and abroad — or willing to adopt more stimulative policy measures if those uncertainties turned into economic drags.The Fed’s communication after its December meeting, when officials raised rates by a quarter of a percentage point, “were reportedly perceived by market participants as not fully appreciating the tightening of financial conditions and the associated downside risks to the U.S. economic outlook that had emerged since the fall,” the minutes said.Officials worried in particular that investors did not have a clear picture of how the Fed planned to deal with the slimming of the bond portfolio it amassed in the wake of the financial crisis. In addition to lowering interest rates to near zero, the Fed tried to goose the economy by purchasing large quantities of mortgage bonds and Treasury securities, as a way to encourage investors to buy riskier assets, like stocks.The Fed has slowly been winnowing that $4 trillion portfolio by allowing up to $50 billion in bonds to mature each month, but officials appeared to agree in January that the balance sheet runoff should end this year.Officials agreed that “it would be desirable to announce before too long a plan to stop reducing the Federal Reserve’s asset holdings later this year” and said the announcement “would provide more certainty about the process for completing the normalization of the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet.”The minutes also highlighted just how hard it is for the Fed, which does not traffic in plain language, to always effectively communicate its plans. At the January meeting, Fed officials noted that investors were perceiving the central bank to be “insufficiently flexible” in both its rate increase campaign and its balance sheet runoff.Fed officials tried to change those perceptions after both the December and January meetings. The Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said in a news conference on Jan. 30 that officials had concluded that recent economic developments — including slowing global growth, turmoil in financial markets and uncertainty over trade negotiations — had pushed the central bank to “a patient, wait-and-see approach regarding future policy changes.”“We are now facing a somewhat contradictory picture of generally strong U.S. macroeconomic performance, alongside growing evidence of crosscurrents,” Mr. Powell said. “At such times, common sense risk management suggests patiently awaiting greater clarity.”Curt Long, the chief economist at the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions, said the minutes revealing the shift to a more “patient” stance were “certainly a nod to jittery markets.”Greg McBride, the chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com, was more blunt: “It’s evident the Fed was rattled by the markets and caved,” he wrote on Wednesday.The minutes show Fed officials saw little downside to the shift. They show officials “pointed to a variety of considerations that supported a patient approach to monetary policy,” including the need for additional economic data, which would help policymakers better gauge business and consumer sentiment.The Fed also believed that being patient would allow more time to determine the effect of President Trump’s trade war with China and other countries and the economic damage from the prolonged government shutdown, which had not been resolved at the time of the January meeting.“Information arriving in coming months could also shed light on the effects of the recent partial federal government shutdown on the U.S. economy and on the results of the budget negotiations occurring in the wake of the shutdown, including the possible implications for the path of fiscal policy,” the minutes said.The pause had its desired effect with investors, as markets celebrated that news with a rally that has since continued.Other critics of the Fed’s interest rate campaign also appear to have been pleased. Mr. Trump — who has repeatedly criticized the Fed for raising interest rates — dined with Mr. Powell soon after the meeting. Many liberal economists also cheered the move to slow rate increases, saying it would help workers by continuing to buoy the labor market and potentially raise wages.Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Do you have Presidents’ Day off? I hope so, and that you’re spending it someplace warm and dry, even if that’s just a nest of pillows your living room. The third week of February is the peak of winter drear, in my opinion, and we could all use a break from the gray skies and interminable drama in Washington. Whether you’re heading into a short workweek or not, here’s what to know when it starts, from the latest on President Trump and the wall to the market outlook from the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, and other business and tech news.FEB. 10-16What’s Up? A New Can of WormsSo much for negotiating. Congress passed a spending bill to keep the government open before the deadline on Friday, but the legislation only includes $1.375 billion for 55 miles of steel-post fencing along the southern border. That’s a fraction of the $5.7 billion for more than 200 miles of steel or concrete barriers that President Trump has been demanding for months. Mr. Trump responded by declaring a national emergency to tap into billions of dollars originally earmarked for other government projects. Critics view this action as an attempt to save face on his wall promises. But the move also raises questions about his executive powers, and will most likely be challenged in the courts. Not Such a Prime LocationAlexa, we hardly knew thee. Amazon abruptly canceled its plan to build a sprawling corporate campus (also known as HQ2) in New York City, citing backlash from government leaders, unions and residents. Although the company promised to bring 25,000 new jobs to the area, that wasn’t enough to drown out critics who opposed the cushy tax breaks and other financial incentives that New York lawmakers used to lure the tech giant to Long Island City, Queens. “A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward,’’ Amazon said in a statement on Thursday. It still plans to build another campus in Virginia. Tax TurmoilOh look, the dreaded tax forms in your mailbox: It’s that time again. To make this season even more painful, millions of Americans will get smaller tax refunds this year, or find that they owe money despite no changes in their salaries. Yes, the Trump administration’s tax overhaul was supposed to keep more money in your pocket, but the average refund for early filers was down 8.4 percent. What’s going on? For some taxpayers, it’s that certain deductions no longer apply. For others, it’s that less money was withheld from their pay last year. Either way, this isn’t what you want to hear from your accountant, and it could dampen consumer spending in the coming months. FEB. 17-23What’s Next? Buffett Takes StockIf you’re in the market for some corny investment jokes, look no further than Warren Buffett’s annual shareholder letter, which he will post on Saturday along with financial results for his company, Berkshire Hathaway. The third-richest man in the world, Mr. Buffett, 88, has used his yearly letters to deliver dad humor, nuggets of financial wisdom and insights into his big-picture view of the economy since 1965. Many people pore over his words for stock tips, but they’re also worth a gander if you're interested in learning from one of the most successful and experienced private investors in history. What the Fed Was ThinkingRemember when the Federal Reserve suddenly changed its mind about raising interest rates at its January policy meeting and adopted a more hands-off approach that sent markets into fits of glee? The Fed may offer more clues about its flip-flop when the minutes from that meeting become public on Wednesday. The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, has now indicated that the Fed won’t raise rates again until inflation accelerates — a reversal of previous policy. Higher rates are intended to keep the economy steady as it grows, so it’ll be interesting to learn why Fed officials felt compelled to take their hands off the levers. The Standoff Drags On. And On.If you hoped that American and Chinese officials might start making some real progress in resolving their trade war, sorry. Yet another round of talks concluded this past week with no resolution in sight, although they will continue this coming week in Washington. Mr. Trump is supposedly considering a 60-day extension to the looming March 2 deadline for a deal. If the world’s two largest economic powers can’t come to an agreement, the United States has threatened to impose punitive tariffs against Chinese goods, hurting consumers in both countries. The upside to giving negotiators more time is obvious: The tariffs could be avoided, or at least put off. The downside is that it leaves companies — and even entire industries, like soybean farming — in limbo for even longer. What Else?Surprise, surprise: Prime Minister Theresa May hit another setback over Britain’s fraught exit from the European Union when her own party splintered on Thursday. Speaking of hot water, Facebook may have earned itself a multibillion-dollar fine from the Federal Trade Commission over privacy violations. Elsewhere in big money: JPMorgan will be the first major American bank to roll out its own cryptocurrency, even though its chief executive called bitcoin “a fraud” back in 2017. And finally, can’t afford an engagement ring for your loved one? Consider this $1.30 plastic version.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Bets on Big Tech became, in Wall Street parlance, crowded last year.The belief that shares of the world’s tech giants — Alibaba, Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Baidu, Facebook, Netflix and Tencent — would continue to rise became universally popular among some of the biggest names in investing.Last quarter, sentiment reversed, and those same investors dumped their shares.Investment firms run by George Soros and David Tepper unloaded their shares of Apple during the fourth quarter, according to filings Thursday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The hedge fund Jana Partners also reduced its stake in the iPhone maker last quarter.Even Berkshire Hathaway, which has spent the past three years gobbling up shares of Apple, cut back its holdings in the company.And Apple was not the only tech titan that big investors were selling last quarter.Jana, along with Third Point, sold all its shares in Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant. Third Point exited its position in Netflix. Leon Cooperman’s firm, Omega Advisors, sold its stake in Facebook and reduced its holdings in Alphabet. And Tiger Global Management decreased its holdings in Amazon.The filings are the latest evidence of how quickly investors soured on Big Tech late last year as the industry’s woes mounted. A stream of revelations about privacy lapses and security issues had raised the specter of increased regulation on both sides of the Atlantic. But of more immediate concern for investors late last year was whether these companies could continue to grow amid a slowing global economy and an escalating trade war between China and the United States.Over the final three months of last year, tech shares dropped 13 percent to 30 percent, erasing more than $1 trillion in market value. By comparison, the S&P 500 fell 14 percent.The selling signaled a swift shift in sentiment among big hedge funds. Many of these fund managers had struggled to beat the broader market in recent years. So as tech stocks soared and drove much of the broader market’s gains, hedge funds crammed their portfolios with their shares.The selling caught the hedge fund industry off guard, and their losses mounted during the fourth-quarter tumult in the stock market.So far this year, shares of the tech companies have recovered, but most have not fared as well as the S&P 500.Earnings for the final three months of 2018 were better than investors feared, but they did not inspire confidence that Big Tech would weather a global economic slowdown well, particularly in China.Whether investors will pile back into tech stocks will probably depend on the outcome of trade talks between China and the United States. Until then, many investors may stay on the sidelines.John Bogle, the father of low-cost investing, once said that the index fund was the “most successful innovation — especially for investors — in modern financial history.”It’s easy to see why. Index funds typically track a broad group of stocks, like all the companies in the Dow Jones industrial average or the S.&P. 500. Rather than trying to choose one or two winning stocks, or relying on the expertise of a mutual fund manager to do so, investors in index funds can buy a range of businesses and hold them to capture the long-term growth of the market. Because index funds generally don’t need ace stock pickers, they charge rock-bottom fees. Index funds are now the dominant force in investing, holding trillions of dollars of American assets.But there’s a problem: The indexes these funds are based on may not be as neutral as they seem. The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors.The Wall Street Journal recently reported that MSCI, one of the largest index providers in the United States, added Chinese issuers to its Emerging Markets Index after the Chinese government threatened to curtail MSCI’s business in the country. (MSCI told The Journal that its process for choosing firms in its index is “transparent and objective” and includes safeguards to maintain those standards.) Clearly, there needs to be transparency and accountability in index providers’ decisions. Conflicts of interest should worry anyone who is invested in index funds, which includes many Americans with retirement accounts. Index providers have enormous power. The decision to include a company in the S.&P. 500, for example, results in a reallocation of billions of dollars of investors’ money. The average company added to the S.&P. 500 gains value; when it’s removed, its share price drops as index funds sell their holdings.Even more worrying is recent research by Prof. Adriana Robertson of the University of Toronto, who documents the rise of highly customized indexes, which are developed for the use of a single fund. She shows that the index and the fund are frequently run by the same managers.Indexes like these start to look less like the objective benchmarks investors often believe they’re getting. Investors may not understand how the index works or whether it may be susceptible to undue influence.We saw the real costs of benchmark manipulation in the Libor-rigging scandal. In 2012, settlements with regulators and the Justice Department revealed that some of the world’s most influential banks had manipulated the Libor benchmark, which is used to determine borrowing costs across the economy. The abuses allowed banks to extract excess profits while raising interest costs for American homeowners and students. In response, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, under Commissioner Rostin Behnam, established a group to reform such benchmarks. There is no such group overseeing stock market indexes. While there are global standards for how indexes should be governed, American law remains remarkably silent on the subject.There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted. Some well-known indexes have established committees to decide which companies are included; for instance, the stocks in the S.&P. 500 index, which is tracked by mutual funds holding more than $1 trillion in assets, are chosen by committee. But these committees have enormous discretion.Indexes have influence over stock prices that even the largest investors can only envy. Given the conflicts of interest the index providers face and the power they wield over markets, we need a national conversation about how to ensure that they operate with integrity, transparency and accountability. Unfortunately, existing law is ill suited for the purpose.That’s why we’re calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans’ investment dollars are allocated. We need to bring more transparency and accountability to the way these companies use that influence.Robert J. Jackson Jr. sits on the Securities and Exchange Commission. Steven Davidoff Solomon is a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, Law School and director of its Center for Law and Business. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.The value of a Picasso or a Ferrari typically rises in a strong economy, as do shares in a consumer staple like Procter & Gamble.But when the economy sours, those shares may be easier than the other possessions to shed. As wealthy collectors pull back on extravagances, investors could get stuck holding an asset they might have to unload at a loss.In 2012, when the market was roaring for passion assets — those in which you put money where your heart is — I wrote a series of columns on why people invested in things like vineyards, racehorses and sports teams.This time, I will look at five nontraditional asset classes that are popular with wealthy investors and with an eye on what to expect in a market downturn. Art is the first of five valuable but illiquid assets I plan to examine in the coming weeks. The others are cars, collectibles like wine and jewelry, private equity and real estate.Collecting fine art is as much about beauty and desirability as it about the investment value. Given how strong the art market has been over the past few years, many collectors may not be prepared if the economy slows and the appetite for art cools.Roy Sebag, a hedge fund analyst turned entrepreneur, has a collection that includes a drawing by Pablo Picasso and works by 17th-century Dutch masters. He said he took an objective view of his collection’s value: looking at both the art’s intrinsic value — how an artist’s work has appreciated — and its social currency.“It’s subjective,” but it still allows for analysis on historical pricing, said Mr. Sebag, founder of Goldmoney, a site for buying and selling precious metals, and co-founder of Mené, a jewelry line. “It isn’t a coincidence that Picasso is viewed by every high-net-worth individual as an asset they want to own.” There are supposedly 5,000 works by Picasso, he said, a stock large enough to build a network of interested parties.By his analysis, avoiding emerging artists and buying works of a well-known artist like Picasso, despite having to pay millions of dollars to do so, is like buying a hedge against recession. “We know trends change quickly,” he said.Such beliefs could be tested in the next few years.In 2018, works by the 100 top-selling artists, as measured by the market research firm Artprice, rose 4.3 percent in value, but the art market as a whole lost 1.9 percent. The company explained that buyers were becoming more demanding.“While happy to pay big money for rare and high-quality works with irreproachable provenance, they often ‘pass’ on other works,” its report said.In 2008, the art market was not immune to huge swings in value. Sales of postwar and contemporary art fell by more than two-thirds from 2008 to 2009, according to data collected by Athena Art Finance, which lends against art portfolios. It took until 2012 for sales to surpass pre-recession levels.To guard against seeing the value of an art collection plummet, dealers advise prudence and, not surprisingly, connoisseurship.If there is a lesson to be drawn from the recession, it is that buyers become more discerning in both the artists they favor and the price they will pay, said B. J. Topol, co-president of Topol Childs Art Advisory, which works on behalf of wealthy clients.“There’s a reshuffling in a recession,” she said. “The trendy artist of the time, people aren’t looking at him. People want to make sure they’re buying a known commodity and not taking risk.”Ms. Topol said she saw signs of a slowdown in the art market at the Art Basel international art fair in Miami Beach in December. Art wasn’t being snapped up in the first few minutes. Instead, buyers had a chance to digest what they were seeing and negotiate on price.Regardless of the climate, she advises not to buy on trends, yet she stops short of the adage to buy what you love. That could be financially disastrous.“If you combine your passion with an informed decision,” she said, “you’ll have something you love every day and maybe it goes up one day.”Other collectors amass idiosyncratic collections whose value is greater together than apart. Peeling off several pieces in a downturn could depress the value of the collection as a whole, said Jean Pigozzi, a venture capitalist and art collector.“I’m not at all like all the other hedge fund collectors,” said Mr. Pigozzi, who has amassed a significant collection of contemporary African art. “I’ve never collected thinking what I collect would be a good investment.”He said most of his pieces were not worth more than $100,000. Compare that with a work by Jean-Michel Basquiat, among the best-selling contemporary artists today. Mr. Pigozzi paid $1,000 for an artwork by Basquiat in 1982 and sold it last year for $3.2 million.What he has is a unique collection that is often included in museum shows and sought after by auction houses. In its totality, it offers a window into sub-Saharan art of the past 30 years.But Mr. Pigozzi knows selling it would be difficult without breaking it apart. Instead, he hopes to create a museum for it.Approaching art as a pure investment can be difficult, because values of an artist’s work can change substantially in ways not associated with typical capital markets investing.The value of works by Wifredo Lam, for instance, has doubled or even tripled in the last decade because of a reappraisal of his place in art history, said Isabelle Bscher, the third-generation owner of Galerie Gmurzynska, which has represented artists including Yves Klein, Joan Miró and Picasso.Lam, who died in 1982, was Cuban by birth and grouped with other Latin American artists at auctions, which drew a specific collector. But he was later seen as a modern artist, because he was a friend of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and other midcentury artists. As his artworks moved to more popular auctions, their value has doubled or tripled in a decade, Ms. Bscher said.A similar shift happened with Picasso about 15 years ago, she said. Collectors did not want to buy his work created after 1965, when the artist was in his 80s and seen as past his prime. At the time, the artworks were inexpensive, but they have since risen in value.Her advice: “If you buy the period of an artist that is not in fashion, you can make a great investment.”There are of course plenty of collectors with enough wealth to not really care about the short-term hit in value that the work on their walls may take. Hilary Geary Ross, an art collector and the wife of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, said she had always loved the work of René Magritte, the Belgian surrealist, and began buying his work when she and Mr. Ross married in 2004.She has 36 pieces by Magritte, worth in excess of $100 million. They include famous works like “La Clairvoyance.” The billionaire couple have rarely sold any of their works, but Mrs. Ross said they did take advantage of the 2008 downturn to buy paintings.“People come to us with them, because they know we like them,” she said.In distressed markets, social concerns may keep some people from working with auction houses. They can try private sales — as happened with the Ross’s acquisitions in 2008 — to sell something quietly.But Ms. Topol said that even then, discerning collectors were going to drive a hard bargain. If that happens, she said, dealers and auction houses can step in to help. But her advice echoes that of others: Don’t sell art in a downturn unless other sources of liquidity have dried up.Mr. Sebag said that the art he owned had increased in value far more than other investments he had made, but that he would sell it only if he ceased to enjoy it.“I think art is something you purchase without an exit strategy,” Mr. Sebag said. “My idea of liquidity is in other investments.”Having those other buckets to draw from is important — otherwise, you could be forced to sell a prized work for less than you would want to when the economy sours.BEIJING — United States officials said on Friday that they had made “progress” during a week of trade talks with their Chinese counterparts, but big sticking points remain and the two sides plan to continue negotiations next week in Washington to try to end the trade war.The United States and China are trying to reach an agreement ahead of a March 2 deadline, when President Trump has threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. On Friday, Mr. Trump suggested for the second time in a week that he would push the deadline back if the two sides were edging closer to a deal.“There is a possibility that I will extend the date,” Mr. Trump said during remarks at the White House, noting the complexity of the negotiations. “I will do that at the same tariffs we are at now; I would not increase the tariffs.”Mr. Trump said the discussions with Beijing were going “extremely well” but added that the only thing that mattered was whether the two sides could reach a deal that resolved his concerns about China’s trade practices.“We’re a lot closer than we ever were in this country to having a real trade deal,” Mr. Trump said, adding that the agreement with China would cover “theft” and “unfairness.”But significant differences remain in the trade talks, and it is unclear whether they can be resolved, people briefed on the negotiations said.“These detailed and intensive discussions led to progress between the two parties,” the White House press secretary said in a statement. “Much work remains, however.”American officials said the talks focused on so-called structural reforms that the United States wanted China to make, and on China’s purchase of American goods and services. The White House said Friday that any agreement between the two countries would be included in “a memoranda of understanding between the two countries.”The most difficult and intractable issue involves the Trump administration’s desire to put meaningful restrictions on China’s ability to keep investing enormous sums of money from the government, and from government-affiliated financial institutions, in a wide range of advanced manufacturing sectors that compete with American industries. These include areas like commercial aircraft manufacturing, semiconductors and artificial intelligence.Another challenge for negotiators is that both sides perceive national security as being at stake in some cases.China has been reluctant to unblock internet access to its market for some of Silicon Valley’s biggest and most successful businesses, like Facebook and Google. It fears that without stringent censorship, everything from democratic ideas to pornography would be harder to fight.Mr. Trump said that American tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese imports were hurting China “very badly” and that it would be “an honor” to remove them if an agreement could be reached. He acknowledged that a deal of such magnitude could take more than just a few weeks.The president, speaking from the Rose Garden, added that he would most likely meet with President Xi Jinping of China “at some point” to work out any remaining differences between the two countries.The prospect of extending the March deadline has divided Mr. Trump’s economic advisers, with hard-liners such as Robert Lighthizer, the administration’s top trade negotiator, increasingly wary that China is trying to run out the clock or clinch an unenforceable deal that it will ultimately break. A delay in the deadline would be viewed internally as a win for Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, who has been pushing hard to put the trade war to rest and calm markets.Mr. Mnuchin said that he and Mr. Lighthizer had “productive meetings” with Liu He, China’s economic czar.Mr. Lighthizer and Mr. Mnuchin also met with Mr. Xi on Friday afternoon at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. Stocks in the United States were up 1 percent on Friday as optimism about the state of the negotiations calmed jittery investors.The talks did allow both sides to at least begin hashing out their differences. Both the United States and China began somewhat mechanically combining their lists of offers into a memorandum of understanding that included areas of disagreement in bracketed text, with each side’s separate views listed for each issue, people briefed on the talks said. Compiling the various offers could someday make it possible for the countries’ leaders to go through the options more systematically.But the broad areas of disagreement still left in the bracketed text mean that an actual, comprehensive understanding between the two sides remains elusive.The negotiations did not include any big new concessions by China to limit its government-led push to build high-tech industries in competition with the West, said the people, who insisted on anonymity because of the diplomatic and financial sensitivity of the talks.China Central Television, a state-controlled broadcaster, said early Friday evening on its website that progress had been made. It said the talks would continue in Washington next week.“New progress has been made on important and difficult issues,” CCTV said, without providing any details. “Although there is still a lot of work to be done, we have hope.”China is in the middle of a sharp economic slowdown, triggered partly by Beijing’s efforts to rein in debt but also by a sudden faltering in the willingness of consumers to spend and industries to invest. Many business leaders attribute the decline in consumer and investor confidence to the trade war.That economic backdrop has given Chinese leaders an incentive to emphasize progress in the talks. Mr. Mnuchin has also stressed progress, allaying worries among stock market investors. Mr. Lighthizer has said little in public while pressing for a comprehensive trade deal.The two sides have been struggling with more than 100 issues raised by the United States in a lengthy statement given to Chinese officials in May. In preparation for this week’s talks, the two sides had been unable to even agree on a draft framework for the broad outlines of a possible deal, so expectations for any comprehensive settlement had been low from the start.Many of the issues, like how to handle the tech sector, have been festering between the United States and China for a long time. Many high-tech issues are also changing and evolving along with the sector, making it especially difficult to put in place a durable agreement.“Particularly in the areas of technology regulation and standards, it will be a game of Whac-a-Mole at best,” said James Green, who was the top trade official at the United States Embassy in Beijing until August and is now a senior nonresident fellow at Georgetown University.The negotiations this week have encompassed some issues on which incremental progress has been made in recent weeks, people briefed on the negotiations said. China has agreed to disclose more of its government subsidies to the World Trade Organization, these people said.Chinese officials have also expressed a willingness to let foreign companies participate in panels that set standards on important industrial issues, like fuel-economy averages for cars. But while that might give foreign companies a glimpse of upcoming rules, they would be in a minority and might not have much influence.The Trump administration also sees national security at issue in a long list of products that the United States either already imports from China or might be likely to import in the next few years. These include many products, from nuclear reactor components to aircraft engine parts, from among the $50 billion of annual imports on which the administration imposed 25 percent tariffs in the summer.China has tried repeatedly over the past year and a half to allay American concerns about its government-subsidized investments in high-tech industries by offering to guarantee very large purchases from the United States of everything from soybeans to helicopters.In some cases, the purchase offers are being poorly received in the United States because they could distort existing supply chains. This week, China offered to ramp up purchases of American semiconductors, to the industry’s chagrin.“The reported offer by China to vastly increase its purchases of U.S. semiconductors may look good at first glance, but it’s a mirage, aimed at shuffling U.S. supply chains and driving them deeper into China,” said John Neuffer, president of the Semiconductor Industry Association. “It would also represent a significant departure from the market-driven economics that have long defined our sector and the U.S. economy.”He added: “We are confident U.S. government negotiators will see through this distraction.”The Trump administration and the American business community have mostly been leery about an agreement that centers on purchases of goods but does not address long-term issues involving China’s government-backed drive for high-tech competitiveness. Some market-oriented economists in China have also advocated limits on the government’s industrial policies, because they worry about the ever-rising debt associated with them.“If we don’t address the deeper issues, neither side will be doing itself any favors,” said Tim Stratford, who is the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China and the managing partner of the Beijing office of the Covington and Burling law firm.Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi agreed in Buenos Aires on Dec. 1 on a stopgap compromise that does not fully satisfy either side but might prove durable. Mr. Trump agreed not to raise tariffs further then but kept in place the tariffs he had already imposed, while China removed most of the retaliation that it had imposed.That deal has not satisfied trade hawks in the United States, who want broader changes in the bilateral relationship, or the more nationalistic wing of the Chinese Communist Party, which perceived the deal as representing, to some extent, a Chinese retreat.LONDON — Roads gridlocked with trucks. Empty supermarket shelves. An economy thrown into paralysis.The images seem extreme, but as the possibility looms that Britain might leave the European Union on March 29 without an agreement, businesses are preparing for the worst. The art trade is one of them.Dealers, auctioneers, artists and their supporting services are all trying to weigh up the challenges of the withdrawal, known as Brexit, including the tariffs to be paid and saved, and the opportunities lost and gained.“If there is no deal, it means all shipments between Britain and the E.U. will be subject to customs clearance,” said Victor Khureya, executive operations director at Gander & White, a specialist fine-art shipping company, based in London.The London-based artist Eva Rothschild is representing Ireland at this year’s Venice Biennale. Her British gallery, Modern Art, will ship her works to Italy well ahead of the leave date of March 29. “Once Brexit has happened, there will be no guarantee that the export of artworks will not be subject to intense chaos and inevitable delays,” said Stuart Shave, the gallery’s director.Tornabuoni Art, a high-end dealership with galleries in six locations in Britain, France and Italy, now plans to close its current London exhibition of 20th-century abstracts by Alberto Burri and Lucio Fontana on March 9, three weeks earlier than scheduled.The 40 works in the show have a value of about 70 million euros, or $79 million, which would attract a tax bill of €7 million if shipped back to Italy after Britain drops out of the European Union’s free trade zone, because Italy levies 10 percent on artworks imported from outside the bloc.Ursula Casamonti, director of Tornabuoni Art’s British branch, said, “It will be a long process, but if it’s really complicated and a hard situation with imports, I will close the London gallery.”If the withdrawal agreement between London and the European Union is ratified by British lawmakers, existing trading arrangements will remain in place during a transition period lasting until the end of 2020, when a new, as yet undecided customs framework will come into force.Although Britain is no longer the global force it was in industries such as steel production or ship building, it is still a big fish in the relatively small pond of the international art market. In 2017, the country was the third-largest art trading hub, with total sales of $12.9 billion, according to a report published last March by Art Basel and UBS. The United States had the largest art market, at $26.6 billion, followed by China, with $13.2 billion. The figure for Britain represented 62 percent of sales in the European Union, with France the next biggest in the bloc, at 22 percent.In a recent article, the author of that report, Clare McAndrew, wrote that Brexit was a “golden opportunity” for the art market in Britain. At 5 percent, its import tax on artworks is the lowest in the European Union. If, after Brexit, Britain were to reduce or remove this tax, it could “attract global sales, effectively bypassing Europe altogether,” Ms. McAndrew said.That prospect alarms art dealers on the Continent. This month, the French trade federation for the art market wrote an open letter to the French government calling for changes to counter the competitive threat of a deregulated British art trade. “What we fear is a liberalization of the U.K. market, with relaxation of the financial burdens and constraints,” Mathias Ary Jan, president of the Syndicat National des Antiquaires, one of 10 association heads who signed the letter, said in an email.With buyers in the European Union currently accounting for less than 20 percent of Christie’s sales in London, the auction house, like its rival Sotheby’s, said it had no plans to reconfigure its European operations. “We still think London is the best marketplace,” said Dirk Boll, president of Christie’s Europe, Middle East, Russia and India. “And not having any import tax would help.”For the moment, sellers still express confidence in London as a venue to auction high-value art. Sales of Impressionist and modern art at Christie’s later this month are estimated to raise at least 207 million pounds, or about $270 million, the highest valuation ever placed on an “Imps and mods” season at the company’s London salesroom.But while analysts and auctioneers might see the advantages of Brexit, others in the art world are appalled by the prospect.“The feeling is one of great sadness,” said Enrico David, one of three artists who will represent Italy in this year’s Venice Biennale. On Monday, Mr. David took his “Life in the U.K. Test” as part of an application for British citizenship, having moved to London in 1986.“I was part of the first European generation that traveled around. We felt we were breaking barriers. Then the Berlin Wall came down, and we were part of a communal evolution and joining project,” said Mr. David. But, he added, artists were better prepared for the uncertainty of Brexit “because of the sense of uncertainty that creativity involves.”The practicalities of Brexit will give everyone in the art world plenty to think about. In the event of no deal, Britain-based dealers who operate in the European Union will immediately require customs clearances from two different authorities. This in turn will require specialist software and financial guarantees, according to Mr. Khureya of the shippers Gander & White. “There will be a lot of extra administration, costs and delays,” he said. He added that smaller dealerships could find this particularly burdensome.But some British traders seem unaware of the shock a no-deal Brexit could deliver to the world’s fifth-biggest economy. Andrew Legere, owner of Lantiques, a dealership based in Petworth, southern England, has been buying and selling old French furniture for more than 25 years. “I used to buy a lot of my stock in France, but now I have an established network of British dealers who buy in France for me. I’m anticipating that this should adequately sidestep the obstacle of Brexit,” said Mr. Legere.But wasn’t he aware that from March 29 it will be difficult, if not impossible, for dealers to drive a van over to France and drive it back filled with antiques?“I didn’t know that,” Mr. Legere said. “I’ll have to ring round my suppliers to see what they say.”Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.China trade talks turn to currencyThis week’s trade negotiations between the U.S. and China will have to bridge a lot of gulfs between the two countries. One particularly tricky issue is that Washington wants Beijing to adopt a policy that would keep the value of China’s currency stable. More on that from Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources:• “While the precise wording remains unresolved, a pledge of yuan stability has been discussed in multiple rounds of talks in recent months and both sides have tentatively agreed it will be part of the framework of any final deal.”• “The Trump administration has been clear in its talks with Beijing that any attempt to depreciate the yuan — a strategy aimed at offsetting existing U.S. duties on Chinese imports — would be met with more or higher American tariffs.”• But currency stability may be at odds with other policies. “A U.S. request for Beijing to keep the yuan from depreciating is also potentially difficult to square with Trump and past U.S. administrations’ calls for China to adopt more market-driven reforms and complaints that Beijing manipulates its currency to gain a trade advantage.”There are other contentious issues. The FT rated the chances of success of several critical issues being discussed this week, from stronger protections of intellectual property rights (likely to happen) to the cessation of hacking (much less likely).And any deal would need enforcement measures. CNBC reports that unidentified officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believe a deal would be meaningless if there aren’t mechanisms such as automatic tariff increases to punish China if it fails to keep its promises.But there appears to be less time pressure. President Trump said yesterday that the March 1 deadline for reaching an agreement “is not a magical date,” adding that “a lot of things can happen.”Can Theresa May get what she wants from Brussels?The British prime minister is meeting with European officials today in an attempt to reach a final compromise that would save her Brexit plan. It won’t be easy.Her goal is to revise the deal. “The British government sees May’s meeting on Wednesday with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a crucial chance to get legally binding changes” to the agreement, Bloomberg reports.She has dropped some controversial ideas to help her position. The FT reports that the notion of using technology to solve issues surrounding the Irish border — a plan considered unworkable by E.U. officials — has been abandoned.But Europe still isn’t budging. “There isn’t enough movement for me to be able to expect this to be a discussion with a concrete outcome,” Mr. Juncker said yesterday, later adding “I’m losing my time with this Brexit,” according to Bloomberg.More Brexit news: Britain is unlikely to secure trade deals with Japan and South Korea before it exits the E.U. Another lawmaker has left Britain’s opposition Labour Party to join a newly formed independent group. Three Conservative Party lawmakers have also resigned to join the new group. Honda may move some of the British production of its Civic model to the U.S. — and other Japanese automakers may also leave the country.How a Bernie Sanders presidency would affect businessThe Vermont senator finally tossed his hat into the 2020 ring yesterday, becoming the latest candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination. Mr. Sanders quickly became one of the most formidable candidates: He raised more than $4 million from individual donors in just one day and retains a big fan base from his 2016 run.CNBC breaks down how Mr. Sanders would affect the business world should he become president:• His Medicare-for-all concept, introduced in 2017, proposes moving Americans away from private health insurance to a government-provided policy. He has also pressed to cut drug prices.• He has long criticized big banks, and has fought to break up institutions like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs. Earlier this month, he also teamed up with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, on legislation to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock.• He wants a higher minimum wage of $15 an hour, and has put pressure on Amazon, Walmart and other companies to follow suit.But there’s a big caveat to his 2020 odds. As Sydney Ember of the NYT notes: “Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers.”California and the U.S. hit an impasse over vehicle standardsTalks between state and federal officials on vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards have broken down, Bloomberg reported, citing unnamed sources:• The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had been meeting with California’s Air Resources Board to try and compromise on a replacement for Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.• “The breakdown in talks adds to tension between Washington and Sacramento, which has emerged as a major antagonist to the Trump administration.”• “No further discussions are scheduled over the critical auto industry rules, said the people, who asked to not be identified discussing the private talks.”• California is America’s biggest auto market, and as such has set a de facto national standard for auto emissions.How Trump tried to stymie investigationsThe NYT took a deep dive into how President Trump has sought to clamp down on the many investigations that touch upon his presidency over the past two years. Among the incidents the newspaper uncovered:He tried to install a loyalist as head of the Michael Cohen inquiry. “He asked whether Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a Trump ally, could be put in charge of the widening investigation, according to several American officials with direct knowledge of the call,” the NYT reports. The acting attorney general at the time, Matthew Whitaker, demurred.He wanted a misleading public statement about Michael Flynn’s resignation. As White House officials discussed how to explain the departure of Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, amid an F.B.I. investigation, the president asked Sean Spicer, then the press secretary, to say he had requested Mr. Flynn’s resignation. When Mr. Spicer asked if that was true, Mr. Trump responded, “Say that I asked for his resignation.”He has sought to discredit the special counsel, Robert Mueller. With the arrival of Rudy Giuliani on his legal team, Mr. Trump “decided to combine a legal strategy with a public relations campaign in an aggressive effort to undermine the credibility of both Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department,” the NYT reports. The result: Polls last summer showed more Americans distrusted Mr. Mueller, prompting Mr. Giuliani to say, “I think we’ve done really well.”The S.E.C. wants to make I.P.O.s easierThe Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a proposal yesterday that would let all companies — not just certain small ones — confidentially discuss potential I.P.O. plans with investors before committing to the process, the WSJ reports:• “The conversations would allow companies to identify information that is important to investors and to gauge market interest before formally announcing a public offering.”• “Currently, large companies must publicly file their securities offering documents to regulators before gauging investor interest.”• “Making it easier and more appealing for companies to go public has been a central goal of S.E.C. Chairman Jay Clayton. The number of public companies has fallen by nearly 50 percent since the late 1990s.”• But this potential change isn’t as revolutionary as others the S.E.C. has proposed, Anna Pinedo of the law firm Mayer Brown told the WSJ. “It’s not going to single-handedly change if a company was going to decide to go public or not,” she said.Walmart had a great quarter — and an awful morningThe American retail giant is riding high after a banner earnings report yesterday, with its shares up as much as 4 percent in Tuesday trading. Here’s why:• Profits rose 69 percent to $3.69 billion.• Online sales were up 43 percent during the quarter, matching the company’s goal.• Same-store sales in the U.S. were up 4.2 percent in the quarter, above the 3.2 percent that analysts had expected.But Britain’s competition regulator dealt it bad news this morning by essentially blocking the company’s plan to merge its Asda grocery chain with J Sainsbury. The move hinders Walmart’s effort to shed the underperforming business, since it’s unclear how the American retailer can divest it.Why housing (probably) won’t start a recessionThe U.S. may be on the brink of a recession, but housing is unlikely to be the cause, Conor Dougherty of the NYT writes. Here’s why:• “The housing sector accounts for as little as 3 percent of economic output during recessions and about twice that during booms. Other pieces of the economy are much bigger, but they don’t change nearly as much from boom to bust.”• “The most recent recession, from 2007 to 2009, offered one of the more exaggerated examples of housing’s guiding role in downturns. A recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis found that the construction sector accounted for a little over a third of the decline in output in the past recession.”• “How does housing look now? Mixed, but mixed in such a way that the things most important to economic growth are the most stable.”• “When economists talk about a recession in housing, they largely refer to construction, not home prices,” and “construction is bordering on moribund.”• “In other words: Housing is in recession already. It might not get better soon, but it probably won’t get worse.”Revolving doorPresident Trump will nominate Jeffrey Rosen as deputy attorney general, replacing Rod Rosenstein.Marc Short, who was President Trump’s legislative director for two years, has become Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff.Lindsay Walters, a White House deputy press secretary, will leave in April to join Edelman, the P.R. firm.CNN hired Sarah Isgur Flores, the Justice Department’s spokeswoman under Jeff Sessions, as a political editor in Washington.The speed readDeals• Carl Icahn publicly urged Caesars Entertainment to sell itself. (Reuters)• BlackRock and KKR are reportedly in talks to invest as much as $5 billion in Abu Dhabi’s oil pipeline network. (FT)• PepsiCo agreed to buy Muscle Milk from Hormel for an undisclosed amount, the first acquisition under its new C.E.O. (Bloomberg)• Just Inc., the maker of egg-free mayonnaise, is reportedly seeking $200 million in new funding. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• A majority of Americans back Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a system of universal child care, which would be paid for by her plan to increase taxes on the wealthy. (NYT)• The Trump administration wants California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money spent on the state’s high-speed rail efforts. (NYT)• A federal ethics watchdog refused to certify financial disclosures by the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. (CNBC)Tech• Microsoft says hackers associated with Russian intelligence tried to breach European think tanks and nonprofit organizations in the run-up to elections in May. (NYT)• Germany is reportedly leaning toward allowing Huawei technology in its wireless networks. A British defense think tank has called the use of the Chinese company’s technology on 5G networks “irresponsible.” (WSJ, FT)• Blockchains were supposed to be unhackable. Maybe they’re not. (MIT Technology Review)• A federal judge delayed a lawsuit about a Pentagon cloud computing contract — that Amazon was expected to win — over “new information” about possible conflicts of interest in the procurement process. (WSJ)• QuadrigaCX customers are trying to hunt down funds currently locked away because they’re secured by a password known only to the company’s late C.E.O. (WSJ)Best of the rest• McKinsey & Company will return $15 million in fees to resolve an investigation into allegations that it did not make required disclosures while working on bankruptcies. (NYT)• Nissan and Renault look set to clash over whether they should share the same new chairman. (FT)• The extradition to the U.S. of Roger Ng, a former Goldman Sachs banker who faces fraud charges over his involvement in the 1MDB scandal, could be delayed. (Bloomberg)• Why HSBC’s bankers should prepare for lower bonuses. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Lacking financial joy? “How to ‘Marie Kondo’ your investment portfolio.” (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Simultaneous rebounds in the stock and bond markets are sending conflicting signals about the direction of the United States economy.The S&P 500 is off to its best start to a year in nearly a decade, up 11 percent so far on optimism about economic growth in the second half of 2019.Bond investors have taken a more pessimistic view on the economy’s fate. Prices on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have risen this year, pushing down its yield to 2.69 percent, from 3.23 percent just three months ago. Yields fall when bond prices rise.Stock and bond prices are not supposed to rise and fall in tandem. Historically, when investors fret about the future, they pull money out of stock markets and buy relatively safe United States Treasury securities. This dual stock-bond rally has added to doubts about the current rebound in stock prices.Investors have plenty of cause to be worried about the economy. The trade war between the United States and China has continued to drag on economies across the globe and on corporate earnings. Hopes that the two countries will strike an agreement have increased, but significant differences remain in the talks.Behind the dual rally is the Federal Reserve’s decision last month to pause its interest rate increases. The Fed’s shift has left investors in a familiar situation: an economy that isn’t strong enough to compel the Fed to raise rates but is strong enough for corporate America to keep expanding its bottom line.That is the dynamic that has dominated throughout the post-crisis bull market when stocks marched higher, while bond yields plumbed lows. And with the United States economy expected to grow more than 2.5 percent this year and corporate profits forecast to rise 5 percent, it’s one that could prove supportive of stocks in the coming months.But how long this so-called Goldilocks scenario can persist will depend on the Fed’s plan for rates and the United States-China trade negotiations.Investors have grown increasingly convinced that the Fed will not raise rates this year, and some are wagering that the central bank will even cut rates by the end of 2019. This confidence that rates will remain low has made stock returns more appealing and reduced investors’ anxiety about how higher borrowing costs for companies and consumers would crimp the economy.But it’s far from certain that the Fed will hold steady for all of 2019. Minutes from the Fed’s January policy meeting show a divergence among officials, with “several” saying they believed it would be appropriate to raise rates again later this year “if the economy evolved as they expected.”On the trade front, President Trump has indicated that he is prepared to extend the March 2 deadline for a deal with China, when he has threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. An extension would avoid the worst outcome for the markets, but the longer the talks go on, the more the trade war will drag on the global economy and corporate earnings.And that would raise doubts about the second-half pickup on which investors seem to be counting.Armchair investors have been selling stock. So have pension funds and mutual funds, as well as a whole other category of investors — nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms and personal trusts. The stock market is off to its best start since 1987, but these investors are expected to dump hundreds of billions of dollars of shares this year.So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves. American corporations flush with cash from last year’s tax cuts and a growing economy are buying back their own shares at an extraordinary clip. They have good reason: Buybacks allow them to return cash to shareholders, burnish key measures of financial performance and goose their share prices.The surge in buybacks reflects a fundamental shift in how the market is operating, cementing the position of corporations as the single largest source of demand for American stocks. The binge has helped sustain a bull market approaching its 10th birthday, even in the face of political, international and economic uncertainty. Since the market rally began in March 2009, the S&P 500 has risen more than 300 percent as the United States recovered from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. But few expect those kinds of gains over the next decade. Facing the prospect of a period of relatively low returns — or even a bear market for stocks — many investors are eager to protect their gains or to find more appealing investments, like emerging markets and corporate bonds, outside the American stock market. “There’s no reason to be a hog,” said Rich Robben, interim chief investment officer of the Kentucky Retirement Systems, which manages more than $17 billion in the state’s retirement and insurance funds. “We’ve all eaten at the public equity trough very well for 10 years now. And we felt it was just time to reduce that exposure a bit.”Mr. Robben said his pension fund, which pays benefits to more than 100,000 retired state and county workers, has been cutting its stake in the domestic stock market for 18 months. Such prudence paid off late last year, when concerns about a sluggish global economy, rising interest rates and slowing corporate profits hit the market. The S&P 500 fell 14 percent in the fourth quarter, and 9 percent in December alone. That was the worst monthly performance since February 2009, and badly shook investor confidence. Since the worst of the sell-off, on Dec. 24, the S&P 500 is up roughly 19 percent. But data show that many investors remain nervous: In every week this year, money has flowed out of domestic stock market mutual funds and exchange-traded funds — as much as $15 billion in the last week of January, according to EPFR Global, which tracks flows into and out of funds. These investors, overwhelmingly individuals, have moved money into bonds and cash. Henry Crutcher has missed a bit of the rebound. Mr. Crutcher, a 44-year-old software company owner in Atlanta, saw December’s crack in the stock market as a buying opportunity and moved roughly 10 percent of his portfolio from cash into a Russell 2000 exchange-traded fund. After enjoying a couple weeks of rising stock prices, he sold it, missing much of the roughly 10 percent of additional gains that have come since mid-January.“Right now I’m partially invested,” Mr. Crutcher said. “I’m not totally sitting on the sidelines. But I’m more on the sidelines than I think I should be.”Survey data suggests portfolio managers at many mutual funds and hedge funds have also been skittish about chasing the market higher. A survey of global fund managers by Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month reported that those holding more money in cash than usual outnumbered their stock-friendly counterparts by 44 percentage points — the biggest margin since January 2009. Such statistics suggest that many investors failed to capitalize on the sharp snapback in stocks early this year. “The speed of the rally is uncomfortable,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “To turn from a seller to a buyer in a week is, again, psychologically very tough for people.”Corporations, however, don’t seem to be experiencing such angst. In the fourth quarter last year, American companies bought an estimated $240 billion of their own shares, according to an analysis by the Goldman Sachs team that handles stock buybacks for major companies. That’s nearly 60 percent higher than during the same period in 2017. More buybacks are coming. The Union Pacific railroad has bought nearly $32 billion in its own shares since 2007, and this month authorized buying over $20 billion more. The tech equipment giant Cisco has spent roughly $20 billion on buybacks in the past year, and has authorizations to spend another $24 billion. And Bank of America, which planned to buy $20 billion of its own shares by the end of June, just added $2.5 billion on top of that, the bank said this month.Besides returning cash to shareholders, buybacks offer companies two crucial benefits. They increase demand for a stock, helping to prop up share prices. Buybacks also improve a key gauge of profitability closely tracked by investors and analysts: When a company buys back shares, the same profits are spread over the smaller number of shares still outstanding, improving their earnings-per-share number. So far this year, companies have announced plans to repurchase a total of more than $190 billion of their own shares. That is only slightly behind last year’s pace of buyback announcements. And last year was a record for buybacks, as companies, in part thanks to the Trump administration’s tax cut, gobbled $910 billion of their shares, according to an analysis by Goldman Sachs. Before the early 1980s, buying shares with corporate money was considered a legal gray area because it might open a company up to charges of manipulating its share price. In 1982, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule that allowed share repurchases, provided they followed certain rules.Since then, stock buybacks have largely replaced dividends as companies’ preferred way to return to shareholders the cash they can’t spend productively. Shareholders like buybacks because they reduce the numbers of shares outstanding, which results in each remaining share being worth a bigger slice of the company. Taxes on buybacks can also be deferred until investors sell the shares, which are then taxed as capital gains. While share buybacks tend to increase companies’ share prices, critics blame them for stymieing corporate investment, hiring and wages. They argue that when a company spends its cash on buybacks, it leaves less money available for long-term capital spending and wages. Supporters of buybacks argue, however, that companies won’t make new investments or increase hiring if they don’t see a profitable reason to do so. They contend that banning buybacks would simply result in higher dividend payments and corporate cash holdings or a surge in mergers and acquisitions. Senators Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, and Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, said this month that they planned to introduce legislation that would limit buybacks for companies that did not pay their workers at least a $15 an hour, among other criteria. Also this month, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said he planned to introduce a bill that would change the preferential tax treatment of buybacks, though the details of such an approach remain unclear. But even if such proposals were enacted — and few Republicans have voiced support for Mr. Rubio’s idea — it’s not clear that they would derail the stock market’s ever-higher march. A number of other factors — most notably the Federal Reserve’s abrupt turn away from its clockwork pattern of interest-rate increases — have combined to restore confidence since the brutal sell-off that left the S&P 500 down nearly 20 percent for the year on Christmas Eve.The arrival of a solid, if unspectacular, batch of fourth-quarter earnings reports also quelled some investors’ fears about the outlook for the global economy and corporate profits.But the persistent flow of corporate money into the stock market has been a pivotal element in its recent rise. “Buybacks are likely the No. 1 cause,” said Brian Reynolds, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, a Canadian asset management and brokerage firm. Buybacks’ importance to the rally means any legislative push that results in less activity could act as a headwind to stocks, said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at the brokerage firm Weeden & Company. But if such changes don’t gain a foothold, corporate buying will most likely remain a cornerstone of the stock market in the coming years. This year alone, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated, corporations will be by far the largest buyer of shares, with net purchases of $700 billion. Traditional investors like mutual funds, pensions, endowments and individuals are expected to be net sellers, parting with roughly $400 billion in shares. The American economy slowed at the end of 2018 — and there could be a further slowdown to come.Gross domestic product — the broadest measure of goods and services produced in the United States — grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, the Commerce Department said Thursday. That marks a significant slowdown from the middle of the year, when a sugar high fueled by tax cuts and government spending increases briefly pushed growth above 4 percent.This year seems to be starting at an even slower pace. Many economists expect growth to drop below 2 percent in the first quarter, in part because of the partial government shutdown, which began in December and extended through most of January.It’s important to keep the cooling economy in perspective. The fourth-quarter slowdown wasn’t as severe as many forecasters had feared, and even with the loss of momentum late in the year, 2018 as a whole was among the best years of the decade-long recovery from the Great Recession. And most economists do not expect a recession this year, putting the current expansion on track to become the longest on record.“I think this is a slowing,” said Lewis Alexander, chief United States economist for Nomura. “I don’t think this is ‘we’re falling into an abyss.’”A strong year — but how strong?Thursday’s report did give President Trump some bragging rights — albeit with an asterisk.Economic output rose 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier. That’s a politically salient benchmark because Mr. Trump and his advisers have repeatedly promised growth of 3 percent or better, something his predecessor never achieved over a full calendar year. (Mr. Trump has at other times promised growth of 4 percent or more.)“A year of 3.1 percent growth is something many people thought was impossible as recently as 2016, so it’s a major accomplishment,” said Kevin Hassett, chairman of Mr. Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers. “And it’s an accomplishment that has disproportionately benefited low-wage and blue-collar workers.”Still, Mr. Trump didn’t quite score a clear victory. By another commonly used method of calculating annual growth — which looks at G.D.P. over full years, not just comparing the fourth quarter of each year — the economy fell just short of that mark, coming in at 2.9 percent. Whether growth hits 3 percent might matter politically, but it makes little difference economically. The difference between 2.9 percent and 3 percent growth is negligible in any one year, and, in any case, the Commerce Department will revise its fourth-quarter estimate in March.The White House expects the roughly 3 percent pace of growth to continue in 2019 and for years into the future. Few independent economists agree. With the effects of the tax cuts and spending increases fading, the Federal Reserve expects growth to slow to 2.3 percent in 2019, and many economists are even more pessimistic.Slower, but not slowThe fourth-quarter slowdown wasn’t as bad as some forecasters had expected. Consumer spending, the bedrock of the economy, rose at a 2.6 percent rate — slower than in the middle of the year, but hardly a collapse. Exports, which slumped in the third quarter, rebounded in the fourth, suggesting that the cooling global economy isn’t yet dragging down American exporters. And businesses stepped up their investment in equipment, software and research, a sign that they are still betting on the future.Still, uncertainty about the direction of the economy has made some businesses more cautious. George Whittier, who oversees operations for the Morey Corporation, a manufacturer outside Chicago, said business was strong in 2018 but began to slow at the end of the year. He shrugged off weakness in December as a seasonal blip. But then January was softer, and February was softer still.Morey, which makes electronic components for cars, medical devices and other uses, has been hit by Mr. Trump’s tariffs, which raised prices on imported parts from China. At first, the impact was small, but it has grown as suppliers draw down inventories and are forced to import more.“As each month has gone by, it has seemed like more and more components have been affected,” Mr. Whittier said.For now, Mr. Whittier remains optimistic that the trade tensions will be resolved and 2019 will prove to be a good year. But he is taking a wait-and-see approach when it comes to making big investments.The stimulus effects are fadingThursday’s report left little doubt that the midyear surge in growth has dissipated, just as many economists predicted at the time. Tax cuts and federal spending increases provided a temporary lift, but that was offset by higher interest rates, trade tensions and a slowing global economy. And the effects of the stimulus will fade further in 2019.Residential investment, a proxy for housing construction, fell for the fourth straight quarter, as higher interest rates and declining affordability weighed on construction and sales. Retail sales dropped unexpectedly in December, which could be a sign that consumers are starting to pull back. And growth in the fourth quarter was driven in part by companies building up inventories, which could reverse in 2019.“On the one hand, I was encouraged that there wasn’t as much of a slowing as I thought,” said Ben Herzon, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm. “But on the other hand, what propped up growth in the fourth quarter was unsustainable.”The government shutdown came too late to make much difference to the fourth quarter, but it could be a significant drag on growth early in the year. The funding lapse idled hundreds of thousands of federal workers, left hundreds of thousands more working without pay and disrupted air travel, among other effects. Consumer confidence plummeted. Macroeconomic Advisers on Thursday cut its estimate of growth in the current quarter to 1.1 percent. Growth that weak would leave the United States with little buffer against an unexpected round of bad news — an escalation in the trade war with China, for example, or another round of fiscal gamesmanship around the debt ceiling. A rising share of economists expect a recession in 2020 if not sooner.“The economy’s already slowing and there are a bunch of reasons why it could slow down even more, and that just makes you vulnerable,” said Mr. Alexander of Nomura. “It would take less of a shock to push you over the edge” into a recession.Is there reason for optimism?Not everyone is so pessimistic. Most economists believe the shutdown did little long-term damage to the economy. Consumer confidence rebounded in February as federal workers returned to work and the stock market bounced back from its December slump. Job growth never suffered.“The fears of the economic expansion’s demise seem to have been greatly exaggerated,” said Beth Ann Bovino, chief United States economist for Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. She called Thursday’s report promising, and said it suggested the economy entered 2019 on firmer footing than some economists had feared.There are other reasons to think the economy could prove resilient. Trade tensions with China seem to have eased somewhat in recent weeks. The Federal Reserve has backed off plans to raise interest rates. And the combination of low unemployment, rising wages and low oil prices should help drive consumer spending.“All the fundamentals are there for a solid consumer recovery,” said Michael Pearce of Capital Economics.To the Editor:Re “Workers Before Buybacks,” by Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders (Op-Ed, Feb. 4), calling for the limitation of corporate stock buybacks:The senators seem to believe that they know how best to allocate capital across our $20 trillion economy. Limiting stock buybacks disincentivizes aspiring entrepreneurs to go public and hinders individual shareholders and retirees from building equity.Management and boards of directors for public companies have a fiduciary obligation to maximize long-term appreciation for their shareholders. This requires a thorough knowledge of the company’s growth, capital needs and stock valuation. Policymakers interfering with this fiduciary obligation undermine the free market, possibly leading to unintended consequences for the investor.As shareholder values fall, stock returns to investors will be noncompetitive, and the spotlight will shine on the leaders of the company that made poor capital allocation decisions. Government policy has no business meddling with capital allocation. Boards should take full responsibility for the decisions that affect their shareholders.French Hill WashingtonThe writer, an Arkansas Republican, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee.Five years ago, the classic car market had just completed a turnaround that left even seasoned observers surprised by its speed. The deep recession that began in 2007 had dealt the same initial blow to vintage car prices that it did to the Dow and to the real estate market.The downturn erased four or five years’ worth of gains for collectible cars, by many estimates. But by 2014, most had fully recouped their pre-recession values, and the market has maintained an even keel.There are some signs, however, that the good times may be coming to an end. A mix of factors is at play, including demographics, changes to tax laws and general uncertainty.For auctions in 2018 and early 2019, the sell-through rate (the percentage of cars meeting reserve and selling) for million-dollar-plus cars has dropped about 20 percent from the previous year, according to Hagerty, a classic-car insurer in Michigan. That’s the lowest rate since Hagerty started tracking the statistic in 2008.The wealthiest and most discriminating collectors may simply be taking a pass on the current offerings, or “it may be a sign that the savviest collectors are sensing a change in the tone of the market,” said Brian Rabold, vice president for valuation at Hagerty.If the recent crop of cars isn’t persuading elite collectors to raise their paddles, the question then becomes why aren’t more owners of blue-chip cars selling them?Cam Ingram, a collector and restorer in North Carolina, pointed to last year’s changes in Section 1031 of the tax code, which had allowed the capital gains tax on a sale to be deferred if the proceeds were used to buy another collectible — artwork, say, or cars.“One factor that few people are acknowledging at the moment is the effect of the loss of 1031 exchanges,” Mr. Ingram said. “Top collectors were able to strategically play with positions in their collections to avoid realizing taxes on gains. Now they have to be far more disciplined. The change in the law is affecting both supply and demand.”With the economy still running strong, he added, few top collectors are in a position where they need to sell to free up cash.Both Mr. Ingram and Michael Sheehan, a dealer-broker of vintage Ferraris in Southern California, acknowledged the perception among top collectors that now might be the time to hold the best of the best. When those cars do sell, they often do so off the radar and at still very robust prices, they said. Private sales have always taken place among elite collectors, but now comparatively few big private sales are the exception to the general rule that the top of the market is cooling off.Demographics, too, are influencing this market.“Every day, I get the same calls: Guy dies, his kids don’t want the cars, and they want me to sell them. Or it’s knee surgery, hip surgery or prostate cancer and the owner simply can’t enjoy the car anymore,” Mr. Sheehan said.What Mr. Sheehan describes is most likely the vanguard of a wave of baby boomers getting out of the market, and nobody seems to have a clear idea of what comes next.When the classic-car market rebounded after the recession, it was still boomer-driven, and the very top end came back first, in 2011, according to Hagerty data.“The stock market was still in a slump, and cars were being talked about as one of the few asset classes where good returns could be had,” Mr. Ingram said. “By the next year, the middle of the market (cars costing between $250,000 and $1 million) returned to health, and the year after that, the entry level got active again.”If there is a shift now, it’s still in its early days, and the market may be mirroring its resurgence from 2011 to 2013. The broad entry level continues to be robust, according to Mr. Ingram and Mr. Rabold, while the top end is sluggish, a possible leading indicator of a general slump.The United States economy is in its longest period of growth on record, and most observers predict a downturn reasonably soon. That would certainly affect the classic-car market. But it’s the demographic shift, combined with the potential for another 2008-like crash, that seems to worry the keenest market-watchers the most.“Several things are in play here,” Mr. Sheehan said. “There’s general uncertainty and concern about things like the world economy and Brexit. The boomers are leaving the market in droves.“Younger people can’t drive a stick shift,” he added, “and they can’t afford the cars at the level that the boomers have driven the prices to — they’re busy paying record money for housing, education debt and health care.”At the moment, the market seems to be in a holding pattern.“Gen-Xers and millennials are still priced out of the market,” Mr. Sheehan said. “The last time that the market corrected, in 2008, it turned around quickly after it became apparent that the recession wouldn’t turn into a depression. Baby boomer money was still in play, and it quickly drove prices back to pre-correction levels.”That may not happen again. “The boomers aren’t going to be around to prop the market back up after the next one,” Mr. Sheehan said.What it all means is debatable. Mr. Ingram and Mr. Sheehan both believe that some form of correction is inevitable as baby boomers complete their exit from the market over the next 10 to 15 years. Their cars aren’t going to disappear, but their ability to spend will.“How Gen-Xers and millennials will value those cars,” Mr. Ingram said, “is the $64,000 question.”Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Acquisitions of American biotech companies are surging, and so are the prices that buyers are willing to pay.Just two months into the year, the value of deals for biotech and pharmaceutical companies in the United States has reached $146 billion, according to Dealogic. That is more than what was announced in all of 2018, 2017 or 2016, and it accounts for 40 percent of all takeover announcements in the United States so far.Major drug makers are in a race to find their next blockbuster. As the complexity of drugs has increased, though, so has the cost to develop them. That has made buying a biotech company with a promising candidate an increasingly popular way in recent years for the largest pharmaceutical companies to replenish their drug pipeline.Competition for the takeover targets, however, has also meant big pharma companies are having to pay high prices. That is being reflected in the premiums being offered in the deals this year. The high premiums are also a result of the battering that biotech stocks took during the market’s downturn in late 2018.When it acquired Celgene, a cancer-focused biotech, for $81 billion in the largest deal of the year, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid 52 percent more than Celgene’s stock price over the prior month. Eli Lilly paid Loxo Oncology’s shareholders a 74 percent premium this year, and Roche agreed this week to pay a 164 percent premium for a gene therapy company, Spark Therapeutics.On average, acquirers are paying 120 percent above where the target biotech and pharmaceutical company’s shares had traded over the previous 30 days, the largest average premium in at least two decades, according to Dealogic.Many had predicted the wave of consolidation in the biotech industry last year: Uncertainty around drug pricing policy and the fate of the Affordable Care Act had eased, and major drugmakers were armed with a cash windfall from the tax cut. Yet after a strong first half of the year, a weakening global economy and tumult in the markets quickly dampened deal-making.That stock market decline late last year also left many potential targets cheaper, and more attractive, takeover candidates. From its 2018 high in late August to its low on Dec. 24, the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index tumbled 27 percent, compared with a 13 percent decline over that period for health care companies in the S&P 500 as a whole.That slide has helped make the premiums being paid for biotech companies this year look eye-popping, which has unnerved shareholders of some of the buyers. But when taken from where the target’s shares traded before the market downturn at the end of last year, the premiums look more reasonable.Bristol-Myers’s offer for Celgene, for example, came to $102.43 a share on the day it was announced. That was below where Celgene’s stock traded at the start of 2018.In the cases of Loxo and Spark, the prices offered were just 23 percent above the highs the two companies’ stock had hit in the past year. That’s roughly in line with the average premium paid in all deals last year.There’s been some good news on global trade lately: A full-scale U.S.-China trade war appears to be on hold, and may be avoided altogether.The bad news is that if we do make a trade deal with China, it will basically be because the Chinese are offering Donald Trump a personal political payoff. At the same time, a much more dangerous trade conflict with Europe is looming. And the Europeans, who still have this peculiar thing called rule of law, can’t bribe their way to trade peace.The background: Last year the Trump administration imposed tariffs on a wide range of Chinese products, covering more than half of China’s exports to the United States. But that might have been only the beginning: Trump had threatened to impose much higher tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports starting this Friday.What was the motivation for these tariffs? Remarkably, there doesn’t seem to be any strong constituency demanding protectionism; if anything, major industries have been lobbying against Trump’s trade moves, and the stock market clearly dislikes trade conflict, going down when tensions rise and recovering when they ease.So trade conflict is essentially Trump’s personal vendetta — one that he is able to pursue because U.S. international trade law gives the president enormous discretion to impose tariffs on a variety of grounds. Predicting trade policy is therefore about figuring out what’s going on in one man’s mind.Now, there are real reasons for the U.S. to be angry at China, and demand policy changes. Above all, China notoriously violates the spirit of international trade rules, de facto restricting foreign companies’ access to its market unless they hand over valuable technology. So you could make a case for U.S. pressure on China — coordinated with other advanced economies! — to stop that practice.But there has been little evidence that Trump is interested in dealing with the real China problem. I was at a trade policy conference over the weekend where experts were asked what Trump really wants; the most popular answer was “tweetable deliveries.”Sure enough, Trump has been crowing about what he portrays as big Chinese concessions, which all seem to involve China’s government ordering companies to buy U.S. agricultural products. In particular, the postponement of the trade war came after a Chinese pledge to buy 10 million tons of soybeans. This will please farmers, although it’s far from clear that it will even make up for the losses they’ve suffered from previous Trump actions.The point, however, is that what China is offering doesn’t at all get at the real U.S. national interests at stake. All it does is give Trump something to tweet about.Oh, and by the way: China’s biggest bank, which happens to be majority-owned by the Chinese government, currently occupies three whole floors in the Trump Tower in Manhattan. It has been planning to reduce its space; it will be interesting to see what happens to that plan now.Meanwhile, the U.S. Commerce Department has prepared a report on imports of European automobiles that, according to the German press, concludes that these imports pose a threat to national security. If this sounds ridiculous, that’s because it is. Indeed, while the Europeans aren’t angels, they do abide by global rules, and it’s hard to accuse them of any major trade sins. Yes, they do have 10 percent tariffs on U.S. cars — but we impose 25 percent tariffs on their light trucks, which makes us more than even.But a department headed by perhaps the most corrupt commerce secretary in history will, of course, conclude whatever Trump wants it to conclude. And this report gives the president the legal authority to get us into a trade war with the European Union.If it happens, this trade war will be immensely damaging. The E.U. is America’s biggest export market, directly accounting for around 2.6 million jobs. Moreover, our economies are very much intermeshed — which is why even the U.S. auto industry is horrified at the possibility that Trump will impose tariffs on cars.But here’s the thing: Unlike the Chinese government, the E.U. can’t order private companies to make splashy purchases of U.S. goods. And it certainly can’t steer business to Trump Organization properties. As a result, the chances of spiraling trade conflict remain high.The point is that when it comes to dealing with Trump and his team, autocracies have an advantage over democracies that follow the rule of law. And trade disputes are arguably the least of it. Think about the push by financially conflicted Trump advisers to sell nuclear technology to the Bone Saw Kingdom, otherwise known as Saudi Arabia. Or think of the influence golf-playing expats seem to be having over Venezuela policy.So while stock markets are happy about the prospects for trade peace with China, the broader picture is deeply disturbing. If we do manage to limit the damage from this confrontation, it will be for the wrong reasons. And the warped motivations governing U.S. foreign policy may yet have deeply destructive consequences, with a trade war far from being the scariest possibility.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)U.S. frustrations grow over China trade talksChina’s vice premier, Liu He, is scheduled to hold face-to-face trade talks in Washington today, before attending a meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office. There is still plenty to be discussed.“The tone of the negotiations between the two nations has grown more stern,” according to Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT, citing unnamed sources. “American officials have come to realize that China has been repackaging promised reforms and trying to sell them as concessions to Mr. Trump,” which has “caused deep frustration among the administration’s China hard-liners.”Here are some of the key issues on the table:• Trade deficits. The two nations have “reached consensus on how to alleviate the trade imbalances,” Reuters reports. “Washington and Beijing are looking at a 10-item list for that, including additional Chinese purchases of agricultural produce, energy and goods such as semiconductors.”• Currency stability. U.S. negotiators are said to be demanding that China stop devaluing its currency as part of a deal. But CNBC reports that such a measure is “likely to encounter little resistance from the Chinese” because the nation’s central bank also wants the same thing, according to economists who spoke with the network.• Settling chip spats. “U.S. and Chinese negotiators are trying to resolve a long-running dispute between semiconductor rivals Micron Technology and Fujian Jinhua as part of a larger trade agreement,” the FT reports.• Enforcement mechanisms. “Negotiators have struggled this week to overcome differences on specific language to address tough U.S. demands for structural changes in China’s economy,” Reuters reports, including “an enforcement mechanism to ensure that China complies with any agreements.”“The final terms of the deal are likely to be worked out in a meeting or phone call between Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump himself,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. That means that Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, must now “narrow the suite of disagreements down to just a handful of remaining issues for the president to negotiate.” It’s unclear how long that might take.Kraft Heinz’s $15.4 billion problemThe processed food giant announced yesterday that it had taken a $15.4 billion write-down, earned less than expected and been subpoenaed by the S.E.C. Unsurprisingly, that spooked investors and raised big questions about its strategy.Blame changing tastes for the write-down. Peter Eavis of the NYT writes that the hit affects the company’s U.S. and Canadian operations and the Kraft and Oscar Mayer brands, and “appears to come from a shift in how consumers eat, emphasizing fresh food over processed products.” The earnings miss, Kraft Heinz said, was because it didn’t deliver enough cost cuts.And accounting questions brought the S.E.C. inquiry. Kraft Heinz said that an accounting cost related to vendor contracts should have been recorded in previous quarters, but that the misstatement “was not material.”Investors, including Warren Buffett, also took a big hit. Shares fell by nearly 21 percent in after-hours trading. Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which is one of Kraft Heinz’s largest shareholders, saw the value of its holdings drop nearly $3 billion yesterday, to $12.9 billion.Kraft Heinz may need a reboot. The company’s fundamental business model — promoted by 3G Capital, the investment firm that pushed Kraft and Heinz to merge — is buying companies and then cutting costs. But the strategy could sputter, writes Tara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Opinion: “Who would want to sell to Kraft Heinz now?”Mixed messages over a tweaked Brexit dealAs the British Parliament heads toward a vote next week that could strip control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May, there is confusion about the current state of play.There was “no breakthrough” in talks between two of Mrs. May’s key ministers and E.U. officials during meetings in Brussels yesterday, according to Bloomberg. Her government has been trying to convince Europe to renegotiate the existing withdrawal plan, but E.U. officials have repeatedly declined to do so. Mrs. May is expected to hold more talks with E.U. officials at a meeting in Egypt this weekend.And there are unclear signals about progress. Philip Hammond, Britain’s finance minister, said last night that a revised deal could be put to a vote in Parliament as soon as next week. Unnamed government officials have since tried to play down those claims. One unidentified source told Reuters, “It doesn’t feel like we will have a deal by next week.”But the E.U. reportedly expects a delay. “Discussions between the two sides suggest May will ask for an extension to the two-year negotiating period if the British Parliament backs the Brexit deal but it isn’t signed off until an E.U. summit on March 21-22,” Bloomberg reports. “That is emerging as the EU’s current plan.”More Brexit news: Euro-skeptic Conservative Party lawmakers are threatening to back out of crucial votes, which could paralyze Mrs. May’s Brexit efforts. A no-deal Brexit could cause chaos for the London-Paris train line run by Eurostar. Mrs. May’s government is said to have delayed a report on the impact of tariffs to avoid a backlash. And deal or no, Britain’s currency is in trouble.Might Trump go easy on Huawei?The Trump administration has been branding Huawei as a threat to national security for months now. But yesterday, President Trump hinted that he may be softening his stance on the company.Mr. Trump wants 5G in the U.S. “as soon as possible” according to a tweet he posted yesterday. But, intriguingly, he wants the U.S. to win the race for the next-generation wireless technology “not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies.” (He also wants 6G technology, which doesn’t yet exist.)That could be seen as an olive branch to China. “Some officials in Mr. Trump’s administration have been pushing for him to sign an order that could result in U.S. companies being barred from buying Huawei technology at all,” the FT reports. “Experts believe the president’s tweet signaled he was backing away from such an action, possibly as a way to soften up Beijing for a wider trade deal.”It comes as Huawei is winning over U.S. allies. Despite pressure from Washington to exclude the company’s equipment from national wireless networks, countries like India and Canada are continuing to rely on Huawei products because a) they work, and b) they’re cheap. And Britain and Germany both seem to be open to using the company’s hardware.By day, MSNBC anchor; by night, Under Armour’s adviserUnder Armour’s board grilled the athletic equipment company’s founder and chief, Kevin Plank, last year, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources. Its focus: his relationship with Stephanie Ruhle, an MSNBC anchor — and his apparent business guru.• “Ms. Ruhle has traveled with Mr. Plank and Under Armour staff on his private jet, they said, and given the C.E.O. her input on a range of business matters.”• Among the topics: How to handle bad press over a sneaker model and recommending that Mr. Plank get involved with the White House, at a time when other C.E.O.s were keeping their distance.• “Ms. Ruhle’s involvement at the Baltimore company was unusual and problematic, these people said, and left employees unsure how to handle her feedback because many people believed she was romantically involved with Mr. Plank.”• “The board asked Mr. Plank about the nature of the relationship and whether company assets were used, these people said.”• A spokeswoman for Under Armour said the two are friends, and that Mr. Plank keeps clear lines between the company and his private life.• “The company has grappled with complaints about its culture, including strip-club visits and inappropriate behavior by executives. Mr. Plank has spoken openly about the company’s shortcomings and vowed to make improvements.”Stock and bonds are up. What does that mean?Simultaneous rebounds in the stock and bond markets are sending conflicting signals about the direction of the U.S. economy, writes Stephen Grocer of the NYT:• “The S&P 500 is off to its best start to a year in nearly a decade, up 11 percent so far.”• “Bond investors have taken a more pessimistic view on the economy’s fate. Prices on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have risen this year, pushing down its yield to 2.69 percent, from 3.23 percent just three months ago.”• “Stock and bond prices are not supposed to rise and fall in tandem. Historically, when investors fret about the future, they pull money out of stock markets and buy relatively safe United States Treasury securities.”• “Investors are in a familiar situation: An economy that isn’t strong enough to compel the Fed to raise rates but is strong enough for corporate America to keep expanding its bottom line.”• “But how long this so-called Goldilocks scenario can persist will depend on the Fed’s plan for rates and the United States-China trade negotiations.”Revolving doorMark Frissora will stay on as C.E.O. of Caesars Entertainment longer than expected, as the casino company faces pressure from Carl Icahn.Spencer Rascoff stepped down as C.E.O. of Zillow, the real-estate company. He’ll be replaced by his co-founder, Rich Barton.Reggie Fils-Aime will retire as president of Nintendo of America. He’ll be succeeded by Doug Bowser.Lisa Borders resigned as the C.E.O. of Time’s Up, the anti-sexual-harassment advocacy group, after her son was accused of sexual assault.The speed readDeals• Pinterest filed confidentially to go public, becoming the latest tech unicorn to seek an I.P.O. (NYT)• Barrick Gold has reportedly considered a takeover bid for fellow miner Newmont, whose market value yesterday was about $19 billion. (Bloomberg)• The food delivery company DoorDash raised $400 million at a $7.1 billion valuation. (NYT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $1 billion investment in Flexport, a freight company. (CNBC)Politics and policy• The Green New Deal is technologically possible. But it’s politically far-fetched. (NYT)• Testimony that Dr. Richard Sackler, the former president of the maker of OxyContin, gave in a 2015 deposition appears to contradict the findings of a Justice Department report. (NYT)• A federal judge ruled that prosecutors, including the current labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, violated the law by not disclosing that they had struck a nonprosecution agreement with Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire accused of molesting young girls, in 2008. (WaPo)• The N.J. State Senate passed a bill to bar President Trump from the state’s 2020 ballot unless he releases his tax returns. David Leonhardt of the NYT argues that House Democrats should renew their demand for the documents as well. (Hill, NYT Opinion)Trade• One party totally happy with the U.S.-China trade war: Russian soybean farmers. (WSJ)• E.U. officials are set to debate when to start trade talks with President Trump. (Reuters)• Chinese ports have banned Australian coal imports indefinitely. (Nikkei Asian Review)Tech• Apple is teaming up with Goldman Sachs to create a credit card that provides extra account features on iPhones. The tech company is also working with Ant Financial to offer interest-free iPhone financing in China. (WSJ, Reuters)• Google will no longer force employees to settle disputes with the company in private arbitration. (NYT)• Tesla’s Model 3 lost its “recommended” status from Consumer Reports. But the cars are finally being delivered in China. (WSJ)• Verizon plans to roll out 5G wireless connections in 30 unnamed U.S. cities this year. (Verge)• How China tracks people using DNA. (NYT)Best of the rest• Ford is investigating how it tested vehicle emissions and fuel efficiency after employees reported possible flaws in its analyses. (NYT)• The $15 minimum wage doesn’t just improve lives. It can save them, too. (NYT)• Could money laundering be widespread across Scandinavia’s banks? (Bloomberg)• How China could both calm its trade war and make itself richer. (Economist)• Delta’s C.E.O., Ed Bastian, says “leadership is not a popularity contest.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.WASHINGTON — President Trump delayed his own deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods on Sunday as his administration continues a monthslong effort to persuade Beijing to make significant structural changes to its economy that have so far proved elusive.Mr. Trump, in a tweet on Sunday, said he would delay a Friday deadline to increase tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese imports, citing “substantial progress” during a week of trade talks in Washington between American and Chinese officials.The president, who has been eager to cut a deal with Beijing, said the negotiators had forged a compromise on key issues, including China’s requirement that American companies hand over valuable intellectual property and technology as a condition of doing business in China, as well as more purchases of American agriculture and energy products, like liquid natural gas.But in a hint of how fluid the talks remain, the two sides did not sign an official agreement and the White House did not release details on any agreements. Mr. Trump said he hoped to sign a final deal in person in a meeting with President Xi Jinping of China, most likely in March at Mar-a-Lago, the president’s Palm Beach resort, but no new deadline was set.“As a result of these very productive talks, I will be delaying the U.S. increase in tariffs now scheduled for March 1,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Assuming both sides make additional progress, we will be planning a Summit for President Xi and myself, at Mar-a-Lago, to conclude an agreement. A very good weekend for U.S. & China!”The extension will prevent the United States from increasing tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports to 25 percent from 10 percent on March 2. The delay, which Mr. Trump had dangled as a possibility in recent weeks, is likely to calm volatile financial markets and reassure business owners who depend on China both for components and as a market for finished goods. Investors in China cheered the news, sending its stock market up more than 5 percent.Despite the progress touted by Mr. Trump, the Chinese have still yet to make written commitments to any of the core issues that the president mentioned in his tweet, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.After a long weekend of talks, this person said, the Chinese delegation returned to the Chinese embassy in Washington and, over secure communications, received permission from Beijing to make a commitment in principle to satisfy the American negotiators and Mr. Trump.An American delegation is expected to travel to Beijing sometime between now and Mr. Xi’s trip to Mar-a-Lago to continue to work out the remaining differences. The fact that Mr. Xi has agreed to come to Mar-a-Lago is viewed by the Chinese as a concession, as they originally hoped that such a meeting would take place on China’s Hainan island. But the location also represents a gamble by Mr. Trump, who could be faced with an awkward situation if Mr. Xi refuses to make final concessions while he is a guest at his resort.Mr. Trump continued to tease the prospect of a potential deal with China on Sunday evening, saying “if all works well, we’re going to have some very big news over the next week or two.”The president said tariffs on Chinese goods had helped propel the United States beyond China, saying “as long as I’m president, they’re not going to catch us.”While some analysts said Mr. Trump’s advisers appeared likely to secure greater concessions than past administrations have achieved, others remain skeptical that United States can significantly transform the economic relationship with China.The president’s announcement followed days of negotiations in which American and Chinese officials met in board rooms near the White House to work line-by-line through a handful of documents covering intellectual property, services and subsidies. The Chinese were ready to commit to billions of dollars of purchases of American soybeans, beef, natural gas and other products, though they have resisted more structural changes to their economy.Mr. Trump has long criticized China for undercutting American workers, and his advisers have tried to pressure the country into making firm commitments to protect American intellectual property, give foreign companies equal access to Chinese markets and reduce subsidies to state-owned firms. But some of these goals run counter to China’s own ambitions of cementing the Communist Party’s control over the economy and the economic dominance of its state-owned firms.One component of this week’s agreement was a pledge by China not to artificially weaken the value of its heavily managed currency, according to people with knowledge of the negotiations. A weaker currency would make Chinese products cheaper abroad and lessen the impact of American tariffs. Under the agreement reached this week, the Chinese must notify the United States when and why they are intervening in their currency. If they violate the agreement, the Trump administration would ratchet up tariffs on Chinese goods, according to one person with knowledge of the negotiations.Brad Setser, a senior fellow for international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations, said the currency commitment made sense in light of the Trump administration’s goal of lowering the gap between what the United States sells to China and what it imports. That so-called trade deficit in goods totaled $382 billion in 2018.“I don’t see how you can credibly try to bring the bilateral deficit down if China doesn’t make a commitment to resist further depreciation,” Mr. Setser said. “A weaker yuan encourages U.S. firms to import more from China, it makes U.S. exports in China more expensive, and this would work against the administration’s goal of a more balanced trading relationship.”The two sides do not appear to have agreed to a mechanism that would enforce any deal, but American negotiators have favored requiring tariffs on Chinese goods to snap back if Beijing does not make good on the agreement.“My guess is that the Trump administration prefers the simplest, most unilateral approach that makes it easy for them to be judge and jury,” Scott Kennedy, a China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Relations, said of the enforcement mechanism.The tariffs against China are just one front in a global trade war that the president has initiated since coming into office. In a series of trade actions last year, the Trump administration levied tariffs on roughly 13 percent of total American imports, including solar products, washing machines and metals, according to Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.As the Chinese negotiators prepared to return to Beijing on Monday, industry representatives were struggling to understand the status of the talks and evaluate the effect on their businesses.Business owners and lobbyists have generally agreed with some of the administration’s goals, including fighting for more equal treatment for foreign companies operating in China. But they have disagreed with the use of tariffs as leverage — since that tends to hurt American importers and their customers — and Mr. Trump’s focus on the bilateral trade deficit.While the United States and China seem nearer to an agreement than in previous months, companies that operate in China have not been released from uncertainty. Mr. Trump views trade as one of his signature issues, and his advisers say that, when it comes to a final deal, the president will be the one to decide if it passes muster.Mr. Trump has often weighed in at the last minute to change the terms in past negotiations, imposing tariffs or lifting sanctions based on personal conversations with foreign leaders or perceived compliments or slights.“The president has undercut, privately or publicly, every one of his trade representatives,” said William Reinsch, a former United States trade official and now a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The president is his own trade representative and he’s going to make the decisions.”In the Oval Office on Friday, Mr. Trump contradicted his top trade adviser in front of TV cameras about whether the agreement should be termed a “memorandum of understanding,” a phrase Mr. Trump said was not forceful enough.Still, the president was upbeat. Mr. Trump in a tweet called the talks “very productive.”The lack of detail about what the United States and China may agree to is prompting concern from both Republicans and Democrats, who worry that Mr. Trump may sign a deal that does little to change many of the practices that American companies say put them — and their workers — at a competitive disadvantage.Lawmakers will get a chance to grill the administration about its plans this week when Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade adviser, testifies about the China talks and other trade actions on Wednesday.For now, Republicans are portraying the delay as a positive.“Encouraging news from @POTUS that progress is being made in a trade deal with China,” Representative Patrick J. Toomey, a Republican from Pennsylvania, tweeted. “Hopefully this leads to an agreement that stops China’s theft of US intellectual property and avoids a full blown trade war.”Complications could still arise, however, including China’s importance in helping the United States negotiate with North Korea. The Chinese have assisted the Trump administration in arranging another summit meeting with Kim Jong-un in Hanoi this week and Mr. Trump has often cited Mr. Xi’s relationship with Mr. Kim, which has put Mr. Trump in the awkward position of depending on China’s assistance while also trying to play tough and win a trade deal.“President Xi of China has been very helpful in his support of my meeting with Kim Jong Un,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday. “The last thing China wants are large scale nuclear weapons right next door. Sanctions placed on the border by China and Russia have been very helpful. Great relationship with Chairman Kim!” Here are three things that have happened so far in 2019.The former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard, argued in a speech that for countries like the United States, high public debt isn’t necessarily a problem. To people who follow the I.M.F., it was as if a former pope came out with an endorsement of the devil.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the charismatic new congresswoman who has shown an uncanny ability to drive public policy debates, indicated openness to “modern monetary theory,” the idea that public spending need not be constrained by tax revenues.President Trump delivered an 82-minute-long State of the Union speech in which he did not use the words “debt” or “budget deficit.” Economic orthodoxy that ruled for decades held that fiscal responsibility was inherently good and the national debt a leviathan to fear. Now the intellectual and political currents are flowing — gushing, really — in the opposite direction.After President Trump’s election, Republicans decided to pursue their agenda of tax cuts and higher military spending without doing the unpopular work of paying for it.Democrats are coming to believe they have hamstrung themselves in pursuit of their goals by worrying about so-called pay-fors, policies that offset the cost. When they next take power, they may feel empowered to take on a much more ambitious, expensive agenda.And macroeconomists are confronting the reality that the sky did not fall, even as the United States swung from a $236 billion surplus in the 2000 fiscal year to a $779 billion deficit in 2018. By their old theories, high deficits and debt should have caused interest rates and inflation to rise, and government borrowing should have “crowded out” capital from the private sector.At a minimum, the old rules simply seem not to apply in a world that has free-flowing capital; an aging population; and stubbornly low inflation and interest rates. Or, more controversially, maybe those rules were never really an accurate description of how economics works in a country like the United States that can borrow in its own currency.How did everyone — liberals and conservatives, politicians and economists — get so comfortable with debt?The Clinton surpluses to Bush deficitsThe start of the 21st century was a triumphalist moment for the United States economy. The unemployment rate was at its lowest in decades, workers’ wages were rising, inflation was well contained and the stock market had reached staggering highs.The bipartisan conventional wisdom was that fiscal conservatism was a meaningful part of why: In the early 1990s, tax increases signed by George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton, combined with spending restraint, lowered projected deficits. That, in turn, generated lower interest rates. Global bond markets and the Federal Reserve rewarded fiscal restraint.Lower interest rates, in this telling, fueled an investment boom generating higher productivity — and all the good things about the turn-of-the-century economy. To those in charge, this story of cause-and-effect seemed almost self-evident. But even then, there were reasons to question it.For one thing, the cause-and-effect might have been backward. Maybe the economic boom caused the surpluses, not the other way around. And continuing fiscal surpluses meant a falling supply of Treasury bonds, the bedrock of the global financial system. Could that have been destabilizing? Some economists thought so, for example, Stephanie Kelton, who as a young scholar studied under the groundbreaking Cambridge economist Wynne Godley. In their thinking, the American combination of government budget surpluses and current account deficits — meaning importing more than exporting — would cause private debt to rise. And private debt, they said, is more dangerous than the public kind; private borrowers cannot create money from thin air. In 2001, the boom turned to recession. The Bush administration sought lower income tax rates, especially for investment income, and passed them in 2001 and 2003. In 2003, Congress and the administration created an expensive new Medicare prescription drug benefit. The country faced the new costs of wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The surpluses vanished. Interest rates and inflation remained low throughout the Bush years even as deficits soared, and rather than being crowded out by government borrowing, capital was freely available to private borrowers — so much so that it fueled a housing bubble.Then came the global financial crisis.The steep contraction in the economy in 2008 and the first half of 2009 caused tax revenues to plummet and social safety net spending to soar. The Obama administration advanced a deficit-financed $787 billion package of spending and tax cuts to contain the economic damage.But strikingly, even amid soaring deficits, President Obama embraced the language of the old Clinton-era consensus. “It has never been more important to ensure that as our economy recovers, we do what it takes to bring this deficit down,” he said in his first address to Congress in early 2009.When Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in 2010, in part by assailing the enormous Obama deficits, there was a bipartisan view that the United States was at risk of a fiscal crisis. The concern was that high debt would cause international investors to lose confidence in Treasury bonds and dump them, sending interest rates soaring and cratering the economy. The deficit did come down in the late Obama years, in part after Republicans insisted on budget cuts in so-called sequestration policies and the Obama administration insisted on allowing some of the Bush tax cuts to expire, raising taxes.When President Trump took office, Republicans in Congress initially discussed lowering corporate tax rates while keeping the government’s revenue stable with a “destination-based cash flow tax.”But the problem with a deficit-neutral tax change is that the losers, especially retailers in this case, tend to be more vocal than the winners. Congressional Republicans agreed on the deficit-widening parts of tax reform, cutting the corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent, reducing taxes on many “pass-through” businesses, and more. They couldn’t agree on offsetting moves to raise revenue.In October 2017, the Senate passed rules allowing a tax bill that raised the deficit by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. And just weeks after passing tax cuts, large bipartisan majorities in Congress voted on spending bills that increased federal outlays by about 13 percent.“It just didn’t seem like there was any way to get to deficit neutral or revenue neutral,” said former Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who ultimately voted for the tax cuts after voicing deficit concerns along the way. “Do I wish it was revenue neutral? Yes. Do I wish we had not turned around and voted for $2 trillion in spending that was unpaid for? Absolutely.”Mr. Corker says tax cuts are fulfilling their goal of making American businesses more competitive, though he said he still worried about Congress’s retreat from fiscal probity.“I was there for 12 years, and I think for eight or nine years of that time I felt Congress would deal with fiscal issues — I see no hope of that currently,” he said.Yet again, though, there has been scant evidence that this is doing the kind of damage to the economy that the old models predicted. The United States government can borrow money for 30 years for a smidgen over 3 percent. It was 6.5 percent back when surpluses reigned.Letting borrowers be borrowersLarry Summers was the last Treasury secretary to oversee a full year of fiscal surplus, in the final days of the Clinton administration. Last month, he and the economist Jason Furman published an article titled “Who’s Afraid of Budget Deficits: How Washington Should End Its Debt Obsession.”Focusing on limiting public debt, they argued, had hamstrung the nation’s ability to invest in things with long-term benefits, namely education, health care and infrastructure. “The basic idea that if you issue too much debt you will crowd out large amounts of valuable private capital investment was a reasonable view in the early to mid-1990s,” Mr. Summers, a Harvard economist, said in an interview. With very low interest rates worldwide, it isn’t today, he said.ImageLarry Summers at his confirmation hearing to be Treasury secretary in 1999.CreditDouglas Graham/Congressional Quarterly, via Getty ImagesMr. Summers and other non-alarmist economists are not suggesting that debt never matters.They say that in this environment — with low interest rates to the horizon, no evident inflation pressures, and with worthwhile policies that could enhance the nation’s long-term outlook — it’s foolish not to borrow money.Mr. Blanchard, the former I.M.F. chief economist, emphasizes that interest rates are comfortably below the rate at which the economy is growing. That means that, despite high debt levels in the United States, it shouldn’t matter if the nation keeps borrowing money because its capacity to pay is growing faster than interest costs.Some take the argument even further. Ms. Kelton, who went from her early research on debt to advise Senator Bernie Sanders and other politicians on the left, argues that a currency-issuing government needn’t worry that deficits will lead to a fiscal crisis. Rather, inflation becomes a risk if spending outpaces the finite supply of workers and productive capacity.The political implication of modern monetary theory is that you should lay out what you believe is an important priority for the country, and if you have the votes, enact it. Ms. Kelton said Presidents Trump and George W. Bush behaved as if they were M.M.T. adherents, and as a result had greater flexibility to enact their agenda than a more fiscally conservative president would.Even the members of Congress on the left aren’t ready to disregard fiscal constraints entirely. But they are focusing on the upside of their policies. When Senator Elizabeth Warren was asked if she believed in the modern monetary theory approach, she told Bloomberg Television: “It’s only when we talk about the things that go to hard-working Americans that Republicans seem to get religion about the national debt. Debt matters. There comes a point where debt matters. But what I care about is that we need to rethink our system in a way that is genuinely about investments that pay off over time.”Moreover, Ms. Warren has proposed a wealth tax on assets over $50 million. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has supported a 70 percent tax rate on income over $10 million. Moves like those would reduce the deficit impact of their spending proposals. But both speak of those strategies as desirable on their own terms, for fairness, rather than as necessary sacrifices to pay for aggressive climate change action or cheaper college access.It’s as if Democrats and Republicans were divorced parents who share custody — and elected Democrats feel that the Republicans are the parent constantly giving the children pizza and sweets, while the Democrats worry about healthy eating.“There’s a sense of ‘Why do we always have to be the fiscal grown-ups?’ ” said Jared Bernstein, who worked in the Obama administration and is now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “It puts your party at a disadvantage if we’re the ones saying you have to eat your spinach all the time.”The hawks’ warning Republicans may cut taxes with abandon, and Democrats seem increasingly ready to undertake their agenda with similar disregard to fiscal consequences. But there remains a politically homeless group: people who see profound risks in the bipartisan willingness to embrace deficit spending.In 2011, Erskine Bowles, who was co-chairman of a committee aimed at long-term deficit reduction, predicted that a fiscal crisis could arrive in two years. That didn’t happen. But Mr. Bowles believes that in the generation to come, there will be regrets over the current era of large deficits even in a time of economic strength: “I’m confident many Americans will wonder why didn’t those old guys make some of these tough decisions 20 to 30 years ago.”The Bull Market’s Greatest Feat? Sowing DoubtThis stock market rally hasn’t been as intense as many others that preceded it.By Stephen GrocerMarch 9, 2019Ten years ago, when the global financial crisis seemed at its worst, the stock market hit rock bottom.The bull run that has followed now ranks among the greatest rallies of the past century: The S&P 500 has more than quadrupled, adding $17.5 trillion in value, and, of the 11 bull markets since the end of World War II, only the run that ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2000 tops the current one in duration and returns.But despite the superlatives, this rally’s primary characteristic is how much skepticism it generated. The intensity of gains that defined the stock market bubbles of the 1920s and 1990s never developed. Instead, many investors spent the past decade deriding the rally and anticipating its demise.Bull markets are usually driven by a strengthening economy that fuels corporate profits. But the economic scars of the downturn a decade ago were deep and the recovery slow. For much of the past decade, economic growth remained lackluster; corporate earnings, at least until last year, were uninspiring; and the global economy bounced from one crisis to the next. There was the sovereign debt crisis that wracked the eurozone, concerns about the health of China’s economy and its growing debt load, tumbling oil prices that dragged down energy-sector profits, and, most recently, concerns about global economy and trade.True, the bull market never succumbed to these worries (although it came awfully close more than once). Credit for that goes to the world’s central banks whose efforts to keep interest rates low made bond investments and other alternatives unappealing, and kept fueling the stock buying. This is not to say that investors weren’t excited about some stocks. Investors piled into shares of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft and those four stock had a big effect on the S&P 500, particularly in the last few years. Over the past decade, and factoring in dividends, the four biggest tech companies accounted for 9 percent of the gains in the S&P 500, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices.When it comes to actual performance of their shares, Alphabet and Microsoft gained more than 600 percent over the past decade, while Apple jumped nearly 1,400 percent and Amazon surged nearly 2,600 percent.It wasn’t just the tech companies themselves that fared well. The best-performing bank stock over the past decade was SVB Financial, Silicon Valley’s so-called hometown bank, which rose almost 1,900 percent. For all the attention paid to technology shares though, the honor of best-performing stock in the S&P 500 over the past decade actually goes to Ulta Beauty, the cosmetics retailer. Its shares have surged more than 7,000 percent.The Bull Market Began 10 Years Ago. Why Aren’t More People Celebrating?Americans are still scarred by the financial crisis, and the fruits of this decade’s record-breaking rally fell mostly to the rich.By Matt PhillipsMarch 9, 2019The financial system had nearly collapsed. The deepest recession in decades was devouring over 700,000 jobs a month. Roughly $13 trillion in stock market wealth, slowly rebuilt since the dot-com bust, had again been incinerated. It was March 2009. And it was one of the best times in a generation to buy stocks.A decade later, the bull market that began back then ranks among the great rallies in stock-market history. The 305 percent surge in the S&P 500 is the index’s second-best run ever.The rise has generated more than $30 trillion in wealth. Adjusted for inflation, that is the most created during any bull run on record, edging out the $25 trillion in gains during the epic streak from December 1987 to March 2000, which ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble, according to Federal Reserve data.But compared with Americans’ attitudes during that earlier climb, reactions to the latest rally are downright subdued. There has been no frenzy for stock trading. Nobody is quitting an accounting, advertising, or waitressing job to concentrate on day trading.Why so somber? The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily. Fewer people are invested in stocks than before that meltdown, and many of them are wary of taking their gains for granted. That caution could last for decades.“This was probably the most disliked or most suspected rally that we’ve ever had in the stock market,” said Charles Geisst, a professor at Manhattan College who has studied the history of financial markets. Birth of the BullOn March 9, 2009, the day the bull market was born, the stock market, like the economy, was in deep, seemingly existential distress. The S&P 500 was down 57 percent from its 2007 peak. Compounding the pain was the nationwide collapse in home prices, which landed a direct hit on most households’ greatest source of wealth. The one-two punch destroyed the finances of millions of families. Between 2007 and 2010, the median wealth of a household in the United States dropped 44 percent, knocked below 1969 levels.Every crash has a bottom, though, and in March 2009, the Federal Reserve announced that it would spend $1 trillion in newly created dollars on government and mortgage bonds to push interest rates lower. It was the dawn of “quantitative easing” — and, it would turn out, a new bull market. The S&P 500 rose 8.5 percent that month, its best monthly performance in more than six years.“That should have been the signal to everyone that you can go out there and buy stocks with impunity,” said Byron Wien, vice chairman of the private wealth group at Blackstone, the private equity firm.But to buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.Those who could were already well-off. In 2007, the wealthiest 10 percent of American families owned 81 percent of the nation’s household stock market wealth, according Ed Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University who studies the distribution of wealth in the United States. By 2016, they owned 84 percent, he said.The recovery in the stock market made those families even richer, increasing their net worth by double-digit percentages. Median American family wealth, meanwhile, dropped 34 percent.In the past, such episodes of wealth destruction cast long shadows. For much of the 20th century, the financial habits of the American public were heavily influenced by memories of the Great Depression.Even in the 1960s, survey data showed that people who were young during the Great Depression were much less likely to invest in stocks, according to research by two economists, Ulrike Malmendier of the University of California, Berkeley, and Stefan Nagel of the University of Chicago. The 2008 crisis was nowhere near as severe, but a similar dynamic may be affecting people who started their working lives around that time.Gallup survey data shows that in the last decade, an average of 38 percent of Americans under the age of 35 have money invested in the stock market. That compares with 52 percent before the crisis. Playing It SafeEven those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds. In the decade since the bull market began, the share of Americans investing via index funds, which aim to mimic the performance of benchmarks like the S&P 500, has increased significantly. In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.Americans also appear to be less willing than in previous booms to let the rise in stock market wealth on paper lead to a surge in spending. Family savings rates have stayed stubbornly high by historical standards.“Households continue to kind of treat their capital gains, realized or unrealized, more cautiously than they did in the 1990s or the 2000s,” said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at J.P. Morgan.In part, this is because many stock owners are baby boomers, who might have enjoyed spending their stock market gains 20 years ago but are now more worried about preserving wealth as they retire. Fred Wallace, a 64-year-old retired HBO executive in Los Angeles is one of them. When the stock market took a dive in December, he cut his holdings of stock and moved money into cash and bonds.“That allows you to sleep at night because you know that if stocks tank it doesn’t really matter,” Mr. Wallace said. But even among Americans who are just starting their careers, this risk-aversion could linger. Research from Ms. Malmendier and Mr. Nagel, the economists, suggests that enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades. Younger Americans, Ms. Malmendier said, are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.“We don’t see that happening,” she said. “People were scarred from that experience.”FRANKFURT — Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program devised during the financial crisis. On Thursday, it unexpectedly reversed course and revived some of the measures, signaling the rising threat of a recession.The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.The United States is Europe’s largest trading partner, while China is an increasingly important market for its cars, pharmaceuticals and manufactured goods. The industrial powerhouse Germany barely escaped recession in the latest quarter, as the country’s economy was battered by the American tariffs on its steel and waning Chinese appetite for its machine tools and Volkswagens.Europe has been particularly vulnerable to global forces, given the turmoil at home. The uncertainty over Britain’s exit from the European Union has put pressure on the British economy, while Italy and Spain have been shaken by their own political fissures.The struggles abroad have the potential to blow back on the United States, which has been the star performer among global economies. History shows that the American economy cannot escape problems in Europe, given their deep commercial ties. And the Chinese slowdown amplifies the risks.“We’re looking at the potential for a synchronized slowdown of the global economy,” said Carl B. Weinberg, chief international economist at High Frequency Economics.Against that backdrop, the European Central Bank’s Governing Council voted unanimously on Thursday to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.The stimulus program was used to prevent collapse of the eurozone following the 2008 financial crisis. It allows commercial banks to borrow money from the central bank at zero interest, but they have to promise to lend the money to businesses or consumers.Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. “Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions” was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said at a news briefing. He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months, saying there would be no change until 2020. That means that Mr. Draghi will serve his full nine-year term without ever having overseen a rate increase. He leaves office at the end of October.“The bank is saying, ‘We are doing everything we can,’” said Florian Hense, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.The past decade had been rough for Europe.The global financial crisis, which set off the European sovereign debt crisis, forced Mr. Draghi to unleash extraordinary stimulus measures to keep the eurozone from being torn apart. Mr. Draghi, who famously vowed to “do whatever it takes” to keep the bloc intact, oversaw a vast de facto money printing program in which the bank bought trillions of euros of government and corporate bonds.Europe seemed to have finally turned a corner last year, and Mr. Draghi began cautiously unwinding its program of bond buying, a strategy known as quantitative easing. The bank stopped adding to its bond portfolio in December, and also set the stage for an increase in its key interest rates as early as this September.Those moves were an expression of confidence that the world’s major economies would shrug off President Trump’s trade war and continue to grow strongly. But a few months later, the picture looks decidedly worse.Italy is in recession and Germany came close. Britain’s attempt to leave the European Union proved even more difficult and disruptive than expected.Even the weather seemed to conspire against Europe. An unusually dry and hot summer caused the water level in the Rhine River to drop so low that barge traffic became impossible, disrupting transport of chemicals and fuel, causing shortages and driving up prices.The timing of the overseas slowdown could not be worse from the United States’ perspective. It’s happening just as the American economy is expected to slow down after the economic high of the tax cuts that went into effect last year starts to wear off.In that environment, the United States and its companies will be more dependent on the health of trading partners like Europe. “The U.S. needs the rest of the world a bit more than last year,” said Brad W. Setser, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.Economic weakness abroad can also send American stock markets into a tailspin.In 2011, when investors feared that a wave of European governments and companies might default on their debts, American stocks fell nearly 20 percent from their highs. In 2015, the S&P 500 plunged after China’s central bank made a surprise move that reduced the value of the country’s currency against the dollar.The sudden announcement by the European Central Bank on Thursday was out of character. Typically, the bank changes policy gradually and gives investors plenty of warning.The bank also displayed an unusually high level of determination and unity. All of the members of the Governing Council supported the decisions on Thursday, Mr. Draghi said. That has not always been the case. During the crisis years the council, which includes central bankers from all 19 countries in the eurozone, was often divided on its response.Still, the central bank is treading cautiously, waiting to see what happens with the economy. It did not take the more radical step of increasing its purchases of government and corporate bonds. That form of stimulus is associated with extreme stress and might have been taken as a sign of panic.Mr. Draghi also emphasized on Thursday that the central bank never really ended the bond buying program in December — it just stopped expanding it. When bonds in the bank’s portfolio pay interest or the borrowers pay the money back, the bank will use the funds to buy more bonds. That means the holdings, valued at $2.8 trillion, will remain stable.And Mr. Draghi said the central bank would do more if the economy took a turn for the worse. “We are very open to act and determined to act when it’s needed,” he said.The bank’s change of heart reflected the views of its in-house economists, who significantly lowered their forecasts for growth and inflation. They now expect eurozone growth in 2019 to be 1.1 percent, rather than the 1.7 percent growth they were forecasting only a few months ago.The moves provided a short-lived jolt to European stock markets. The major indexes, which had been lower for the day, briefly jumped into positive territory. But any euphoria about the stimulus may have been outweighed by the realization that the central bank is more worried about the economy than investors thought. Stocks slumped in Europe and, later in the day, on Wall Street.“Today’s announcements have some flavor of panic,” Carsten Brzeski, chief economist at ING Germany, said in a note to clients.If a group of time-traveling economists were to visit from the year 2000 and wanted to know how the economy had changed since their time, what would you tell them?You might mention that economic growth has been slower than it used to be across much of the advanced world, and global inflation and interest rates have been lower. An aging population is changing the demographics of the work force. Productivity growth has been weak. Inequality has risen. And the corporate world is more and more dominated by a handful of “superstar” firms.The time-traveling economists would find that list rather depressing, but also would tend to view each problem on the list as discrete, with its own cause and potential solutions. “What terrible economic luck,” they might say, “that all those things happened at the same time.”But what if those megatrends are all the same problem?Maybe, for example, inequality is contributing to weak growth and low rates because the rich tend to save money rather than spend it. Maybe productivity has been weak not by coincidence, but because weak growth has meant companies haven’t been forced to innovate to meet demand. Perhaps industry concentration has left companies with more power to set wages, resulting in more inequality and lower inflation.Those theories may not be definitively proven, but there is growing evidence supporting each. Much of the most interesting economic research these days is trying to understand and prove potential connections between these dysfunctions.In recent weeks, for example, one groundbreaking paper proposes that low interest rates are fueling a rising concentration of major industries and low productivity growth. Another offers evidence that aging demographics are an important factor in weak productivity.Even if you don’t fully buy every one of these interrelationships, taken together, this work suggests we’ve been thinking about the world’s economic woes all wrong. It’s not a series of single strands, but a spider web of them.Imagine a person with a few separate problems — some credit card debt, say, and an unhappy marriage. That person might be able to address each problem on its own, by paying down debt and going to counseling.But things are thornier when a person has a long list of problems that are interrelated. Think of someone with mental health problems, a drug addiction, and an inability to maintain family relationships or hold a job. For that person you can’t just fix one thing. It’s a whole basket of problems.The implication of this new body of research is that the global economy, like that troubled person, needs a lot of different types of help all at the same time.But for now, the challenge is just to understand it.Why low interest rates can favor market leadersAtif Mian, an economist at Princeton, was recently having dinner with a colleague whose parents owned a small hotel in Spain. The parents had complained vociferously, Mr. Mian recalled the friend saying, about the European Central Bank’s low interest rate policies.That didn’t make sense, Mr. Mian thought. After all, low interest rates should make it easier for small business owners to invest and expand; that’s one of the reasons central banks use them to combat economic weakness.The owners of the small hotel didn’t see it that way. They thought that big hotel chains were the real beneficiaries of low interest rate policies, not a mom-and-pop operation.Mr. Mian, along with his Princeton colleague Ernest Liu and research partner, Amir Sufi at the University of Chicago, tried to figure out if the relationship between low interest rates and business investment might be murkier than textbooks suggested.Imagine a town in which two hotels are competing for business, one part of a giant chain and one that is independent. The chain hotel might have some better technology and marketing to give it a steady advantage, and is therefore able to charge a little more for its rooms and be a little more profitable. But it is basically a level playing field.When interest rates fall to very low levels, though, the payoff for being the industry leader rises, under the logic that a business generating a given flow of cash is more valuable when rates are low than when they are high. (This is why low interest rates typically cause the stock market to rise.)A market leader has more to gain from investing and becoming bigger, and it becomes less likely that the laggards will ever catch up.“At low interest rates, the valuation of market leaders rises relative to the rest,” Mr. Mian said. “Amazon becomes a lot more valuable as interest rates fall relative to a smaller player in the same industry, and that gives a huge advantage to Amazon.”In turn, the researchers argue, that can cause smaller players to underinvest, lowering productivity growth across the economy. And that can create a self-sustaining cycle in which industry leaders invest more and achieve ever-rising dominance of their industry.The researchers tested the theory against historical stock market data since 1962, and found that falling interest rates indeed correlated with market leaders that outperformed the laggards.“There’s a view that we can solve all of our problems by just making interest rates low enough,” Mr. Mian said. “We’re questioning that notion and believe there is something else going on.”How an aging population affects productivityIn another effort to apply a new lens on how major economic forces may interact, economists at Moody’s Analytics have tried to unpack the ties between demographic change and labor productivity.No one disputes that the aging of the current work force is reducing growth rates. With many in the large baby boom generation retiring, fewer people are working and producing, which directly reduces economic output.In terms of company efficiency, though, you could imagine that an aging work force could cut in either direction. Savvy, more experienced workers might be able to generate more output for every hour they work. But they might be less willing to learn the latest technology or adapt their work style to changing environments. Adam Ozimek, Dante DeAntonio and Mark Zandi analyzed data on work force age and productivity at both the state and industry level, with payroll data on millions of workers. They found that the second effect seems to prevail, that an aging work force can explain a slowdown in productivity growth of between 0.3 and 0.7 percentage points per year over the last 15 years.Mr. Ozimek says companies may not want to invest in new training for people in their early 60s who will retire in a few years. “It’s possible that older workers may still be the absolute best workers at their firms, but it could be not worth it to them or the company to retrain and learn new things,” he said.The research implies there could be a downward drag on productivity growth for years to come.These findings are hardly the end of the discussion on these topics. But they do reflect that there can be a lot of nonintuitive connections hiding in plain sight.Everything, it turns out, affects everything.SEOUL, South Korea — When the armored train carrying Kim Jong-un back from his summit meeting with President Trump in Vietnam reached Pyongyang Station at 3:08 a.m. Tuesday, throngs of flower-waving North Koreans greeted their leader with “boundless emotions and excitement,” the country’s state-run media said.But Mr. Kim returned home empty-handed — without relief from international sanctions — prompting the question of what he will do next: Particularly, will he resume his nuclear and missile brinkmanship to reassert his leverage?The revelation on Wednesday that North Korea had started rebuilding the partly dismantled facilities at Tongchang-ri, where the country tests technologies for its intercontinental ballistic missiles, raised the specter that Mr. Kim was returning to his provocative behavior.But experts on North Korea say Mr. Kim may be boxed in: He returned home without sanctions relief amid strong signs that the North Korean economy is continuing to contract. The deepening economic trouble may force the country to return to the negotiating table.In restarting operations at its missile technology site, North Korea is seeking “to increase its leverage before the next round of talks,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul.“I don’t think the North will resume missile tests anytime soon and risk the resumption of United States-South Korea joint military exercises and even the talk of a military option by the Americans,” he said.Mr. Trump expressed his displeasure at the prospect of new testing. “I would be very disappointed if that were happening,” the president said at the White House on Wednesday when asked about reports on the North Korean missile facilities. “It’s a very early report, and we’re the ones that put it out. But I would be very, very disappointed in Chairman Kim. And I don’t think I will be, but we’ll see what happens. We’ll take a look. It’ll ultimately get solved.”The two-day Hanoi summit meeting ended last week without any agreement on the terms of denuclearizing North Korea, dashing Mr. Kim’s hopes that he could persuade Washington to lift the most punishing sanctions against his country in return for a partial dismantlement of its nuclear program.Officially, both sides remain committed to dialogue, with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo expressing hope that the United States will send a delegation to North Korea “in the next couple weeks.” And this week, Washington canceled two major joint military exercises with South Korea to keep the diplomatic momentum alive.But in a telling sign of disappointment, the official Korean Central News Agency’s report on Mr. Kim’s return home made no mention of “comprehensive and epoch-making results” that it had earlier said Mr. Kim was discussing with Mr. Trump in Hanoi.“The Hanoi summit was a knockout defeat for Kim Jong-un,” said Lee Seong-hyon, an analyst at the Sejong Institute near Seoul. “The Kim-Trump romance may be short-lived, especially if Trump determines that playing hardball and cornering Kim Jong-un is popular in the run-up to his next election campaign. In Hanoi, Trump learned how desperate Kim is to ease sanctions.”After the breakdown of the Hanoi talks, Mr. Kim faced growing doubts at home that he could deliver on his promise to revive his country’s troubled economy and keep his long-suffering people from having to “tighten their belt again.”Mr. Kim may engineer a political purge to keep the elites under control and reassert his authority, Mr. Lee said. He may also reshuffle his negotiating team, replacing Kim Yong-chol, a former spy chief who has led negotiations with Washington, with more seasoned Foreign Ministry diplomats, Mr. Lee said.“The greatest achievement” of the Hanoi summit meeting “was to clearly prove that there is no potential for convergence between the current North Korean and American trajectories toward North Korea’s denuclearization,” said Ha Young-sun, a prominent South Korean expert on North Korea, in a column posted on Global North Korea, a Seoul-based website specializing in the North.If North Korea does not correct its course, “the regime will face a second ‘Arduous March,’” Mr. Ha said, referring to a famine in the 1990s that may have killed millions of North Koreans.It remains difficult to measure how much North Korea is hurt by sanctions. The United Nations has warned that the country is benefiting from sanctions loopholes, conducting ship-to-ship transfers of oil and other banned goods, with the help of Chinese and Russian entities.But Mr. Kim’s insistence on sanctions relief during his meeting with Mr. Trump suggested that North Korea has begun feeling pains of sanctions in a way it had never before or that Mr. Kim sees sanctions as the biggest obstacle to his ambitious plan to rebuild the economy.On Wednesday, United Nations and Red Cross officials said that North Korea’s food production last year had fallen to its lowest level in more than a decade, as a prolonged heat wave, along with typhoon and floods, caused the food harvest to drop 9 percent.Maize yields fell more than 30 percent from average levels in some areas, and rice prices are likely to rise this year, aggravating the food security situation, Margareta Wahlstrom, the president of the Swedish Red Cross, told Reuters.That has resulted in a “significant food gap,” leaving around 3.8 million North Koreans in urgent need of humanitarian assistance worth $120 million, according to Tapan Mishra, the United Nations resident coordinator in the North, Reuters said.Since taking power in 2011, Mr. Kim has focused on reviving the economy, allowing more market activities, as well as kicking off a building boom in Pyongyang and in potential tourist zones on the country’s east coast and near its scenic Mount Baekdu. At the same time, he accelerated his country’s nuclear and missile program, proudly announcing in 2017 that he had completed nuclear-armed ICBMs.But it came with a heavy cost.Since North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test in 2016, the United Nations Security Council has drastically tightened the noose around the North Korean economy, banning all of its key exports, such as coal, textiles and fisheries, and limiting its ability to import oil.After steady growth under Mr. Kim, the country’s economy contracted 3.5 percent in 2017 because of sanctions, according to South Korea’s central bank. It may have contracted 5 percent last year, South Korean economists say.North Korean exports to China plummeted 88 percent to $210 million last year, according to Chinese customs data. China accounts for more than 93 percent of North Korea’s external trade.The widening trade deficit with China — it grew 30 percent last year — threatens the country’s hard-currency reserves and its ability to stock its markets and state-run stores with Chinese imports to keep inflation in check, analysts said.During the Hanoi summit meeting, Mr. Kim made a bold offer by North Korean standards. He offered to dismantle its facilities at Yongbyon, which his country has operated as its main nuclear research and nuclear fuel production complex since the 1980s. In return, he asked Mr. Trump to lift the sanctions imposed since 2016 that have strangled the North Korean economy.But Mr. Trump demanded that the North do more, seeking a more comprehensive denuclearization agreement, rather than an incremental deal in which Washington give up the sanctions leverage it has built over the years.“I’d much rather do it right than do it fast,” Mr. Trump said.His strategy stymies Mr. Kim’s plans to improve the economy and strengthen the legitimacy of his family’s dynastic rule. But time is not necessarily on Washington’s side, Mr. Koh said.“Sanctions certainly hurt, but they will not make the regime collapse or surrender,” he said. “As talks remain stalemated, the North will keep running its nuclear program and produce more fissile materials for more nuclear warheads.”BEIJING — A pending trade agreement between the United States and China could put few restrictions on Beijing’s control over the strength of its currency, potentially inflaming trade hawks in Congress and within the Trump administration itself.China’s control over the value of its currency has long been a major point of conflict between Beijing and the West, though the issue has faded in prominence in recent years. Lawmakers and officials in other countries have contended that Beijing has unfairly weakened China’s currency, the renminbi, compared with the American dollar and other currencies, giving Chinese companies and factories an advantage when selling goods abroad.China has long denied the accusation.Yi Gang, the governor of China’s central bank, said at a news conference on Sunday morning in Beijing that during high-level trade talks last month in Washington, “the two sides reached consensus on many key and important issues” about currency markets.The consensus included an understanding that both countries would avoid devaluing their currencies to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports, Mr. Yi said. Both countries would also continue to comply with previous currency agreements among the Group of 20 economies, he said. Both countries would also maintain close communication about currency markets and would disclose detailed information in accordance with International Monetary Fund standards, he added.American officials have taken varying stances on the currency provisions. President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have expressed satisfaction with them. But Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, cautioned Congress in testimony two weeks ago that nothing was fully resolved in the trade negotiations until everything had been settled.Though the issue has ebbed as China’s currency has strengthened in recent years, the trade war has given it new relevance. The renminbi fell 10 percent against the American dollar between February and October last year, to the intense annoyance of trade hawks in the Trump administration.In effect, that partly offset the 25 percent tariffs the Trump administration imposed over the summer on $50 billion a year in Chinese goods. It fully offset, at least temporarily, the 10 percent tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last fall on an additional $200 billion a year in Chinese goods.But the renminbi’s fall corresponded to a credit crunch in China and the precipitous slowing of the Chinese economy. Chinese officials contend that the renminbi’s fall reflected the strength of the dollar, not currency manipulation on their part. Miao Yanliang, the chief economist at the Chinese central bank, the People’s Bank of China, noted in a recent statement that the euro fell against the dollar at about the same pace as the renminbi from February to October last year, while the British pound fell even faster.Since the end of October, the renminbi has recovered nearly half its losses during last year’s slide. Foreign investors have poured money into China’s stock market and bond market. They hope to profit from China’s recent program of extra government spending and tax cuts, now being enacted to offset the economic slowdown.The currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued when the group’s finance ministers gathered in Shanghai in February 2016.In the Shanghai currency accord, all the group’s finance ministers agreed that they would not deliberately devalue their currencies with the purpose of achieving a competitive advantage for their exports. When a country’s currency falls in value, that makes the country’s exports less expensive and more competitive in foreign countries.But the Shanghai currency accord, like the currency provisions in the Sino-American trade agreement now being negotiated, still allowed currencies to move up and down for lots of other reasons. These reasons include differences in interest rates and varying investment flows, as well as trade surpluses and deficits.China has long contended that these variables determine what happens to the value of its currency, and that it does not deliberately undervalue its currency to help exporters.The Shanghai currency accord did not require China to peg its currency at a specific value with respect to the dollar. Nor did it require China to maintain stability in the value of its currency with respect to a weighted average of the currencies of China’s trading partners.Beijing argues that it is fairer to measure the renminbi’s value against a so-called basket of currencies of its trading partners, and not just against the dollar.The Shanghai currency accord also required G-20 finance ministers to notify each other of major changes in currency policy, and to disclose data in compliance with I.M.F. standards.In August 2015, China unexpectedly devalued its currency with no warning and very little explanation. It then quietly let the currency slide further from December 2015 through early January 2016.Japan had pushed hard for the Shanghai accord because of Japanese exporters’ alarm over the Chinese devaluation.That devaluation helped China’s exporters a little, but it came at a very high cost to Beijing. Once the renminbi started sliding, it proved very hard to stop. The central bank ended up spending $1 trillion of its $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves to stabilize the currency.Mr. Yi said on Sunday that the central bank now had a target of maintaining foreign exchange reserves of at least $3 trillion. The reserves have fluctuated at about that level for the past three years and totaled $3.09 trillion in February.That leaves very little room for the Chinese central bank to intervene again in currency markets without falling below the threshold set by Mr. Yi.The accusation by American officials that China manipulates its currency is based on a period from early 2001 to the summer of 2014 when the Chinese central bank did sell renminbi and buy dollars on a massive scale to keep the renminbi weak and help exporters.China’s foreign reserves ballooned 24 fold in that period, rising to $4 trillion from $166 billion and dwarfing every other country’s reserves.But since then, Chinese officials have struggled to prevent the renminbi from falling. As the Chinese economy has slowed, many Chinese companies and families have looked for ways to send money out of the country, potentially destabilizing not just the renminbi, but also the Chinese financial system.Beijing has responded since 2016 with increasingly draconian restrictions on capital movements. Using the formidable investigative and surveillance capabilities of the Chinese police, the government has jailed people involved in surreptitious movements of cash abroad.The crackdown has almost completely halted what had been a flood of Chinese money into American real estate and even European soccer clubs in 2015 and early 2016. China now approves few overseas acquisitions by its companies except in areas where it could acquire a geopolitical or military advantage, such as aircraft production, heavy manufacturing, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence.Mr. Yi spoke on Sunday at the annual news conference of the central bank’s leadership, held in conjunction with the 11-day session of the National People’s Congress.This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Almost half of Democratic voters identify as either political moderates or conservatives. And more than half of Democratic voters say they would like to see the party move toward the center rather than the left.If you’ve been watching the early maneuverings in the 2020 Democratic primary, these facts may surprise you. So far, the candidates have mostly been trying to appeal to the more left-leaning parts of the Democratic coalition. I understand why. There’s a lot of energy on the political left these days, and most of it is quite healthy.But I think the Democrats shouldn’t lose sight of the large fraction of voters — a clear majority nationwide — who don’t see themselves as liberals. It’s possible to appeal to these moderate voters while still offering a progressive agenda. There is no need to go all Howard Schultz.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]My column today makes the case that Democrats can be strongly progressive and still pitch themselves to swing voters. I hope — and expect — that the primary campaign is about to enter a phase in which this balance gets some more attention.Inflating realityThis weekend, The Wall Street Journal ran a big package of articles celebrating the state of the American labor market, under the headline “The Great American Jobs Machine.” The subhead proclaimed: “This is the hottest labor market in 50 years.”My immediate reaction was skepticism. The very same Wall Street Journal ran an article a week earlier (which I cited in this newsletter) explaining that workers’ share of the economic pie was continuing to shrink and that middle-class incomes were stagnant. So I was curious to see how the new, cheerier story would try to prove its case.The answer was pretty incredible. Two charts showed several steeply rising lines, each meant to depict median weekly earnings since 2007 for a specific demographic group. The lines suggested that weekly earnings had surged by between 15 percent and 35 percent over this period. Sounds great, right?It would be, if it reflected reality. But the charts committed perhaps the most basic sin of economics journalism: They didn’t adjust for inflation. When you ignore inflation, most dollar values look as if they’re steeply rising. But that’s meaningless. In truth, weekly earnings for most groups have risen by only single-digit percentage points since 2007. For some demographic groups — like college dropouts — inflation-adjusted pay has fallen. Bottom line: The current job market remains decidedly cooler than the job market of the late 1990s or late 1960s.I think it’s worth highlighting the Journal package both because of its prominence and because journalism that exaggerates the health of today’s economy is all too common. Why? In part, it’s that journalists enjoy publishing counterintuitive stories. (I’ll confess to having that bias too.) Trumpeting a boom feels counterintuitive these days, because most Americans don’t feel like they’re living through a boom.Sometimes, though, counterintuitive is just another word for wrong.Related: Another part of the explanation is that some of the traditional economic indicators, like G.D.P., unemployment and the stock market, look very good. Unfortunately, they no longer accurately describe the experiences of many households. Better measures are income and net worth — including inflation, of course.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.WILMINGTON, Del. — Tom Vari’s lighting suppliers began mailing him warnings about tariffs last fall. They varied a bit in dates and percentages, but they all said the same thing: Very soon, your prices are going up.Mr. Vari owns Brandywine Lighting Gallery, a 2,000-square-foot independent showroom on a busy highway north of Wilmington. Almost everything he sells is made in China, meaning that since September, his products have been subject to a 10 percent tax on Chinese imports levied by the Trump administration. So far, Mr. Vari has largely absorbed those costs, by accepting lower profits. But he — and his suppliers — say they won’t be able to shield customers from dramatic price increases much longer.President Trump insists that his trade war will make America better off and that until it’s resolved, China is paying billions of dollars in tariffs to the United States. But it is small-business owners like Mr. Vari, and his customers, who are largely footing the bill for Mr. Trump’s tariffs. As the trade war reaches into its second year, companies and consumers across the United States are growing weary. Small businesses like Brandywine Lighting have been forced to adapt to new economic realities brought about by Mr. Trump’s trade fight with China, Europe, Canada and Mexico and those companies are now beginning to chafe as the fight drags on, putting their profitability at risk.The United States and China are moving closer to a deal that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific, while requiring the Chinese to buy more American goods and make some changes to its trade practices. While details are still being discussed, the agreement does not appear to require the sweeping changes to China’s economy that prompted Mr. Trump to begin the trade war.For Mr. Vari, a resolution could not come soon enough. If no deal is reached, he is worried that he will be priced out of the market by bigger competitors who can more easily absorb the tariffs costs and not pass them along to customers.“I have to make a decision, if I am going to raise my prices, or I’m going to hold my prices, so people realize I’m trying to help them,” Mr. Vari said. “Help only goes so far, when you’re a mom-and-pop store like this.”Mr. Trump initially imposed tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports last spring, in retaliation for trade practices that Mr. Trump said hurt American jobs and industries. He added tariffs on an additional $200 billion worth of goods in late September, including on many home goods such as lighting supplies. The president initially threatened to raise tariffs on that second tranche to 25 percent from 10 percent on March 2, but much to Mr. Vari’s relief, the president agreed last month to delay that increase, citing progress in the talks.So far, the tariffs on Chinese goods have yet to translate into large price increases across the United States economy: Researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco estimated  that China tariffs have added 0.1 percent to inflation for consumers and 0.3 percent for business investment goods.But there are signs that the tariffs have raised prices for Americans who buy imported lighting. The Labor Department reports monthly inflation statistics for “clocks, lamps and decorator items” in the United States. Like many consumer goods, those items have experienced steady deflation over the last decade — meaning they’re either getting cheaper, or they are improving in value, or both. From 2008 to 2018, the Consumer Price Index for those goods fell by an average of 6 percent a year.That trend reversed once tariffs took effect. From September of 2018 to January this year, the price index rose by 2.7 percent.A much sharper increase could be on the way, if the letters from Mr. Vari’s suppliers are an indication.He has been collecting them for months here at his store, which employs four full-timers and one part-timer. The showroom is packed with hundreds of chandeliers, floor lamps, bath fixtures, bed fixtures and glowing guides for outdoor walkways. There is no warehouse attached, which means he stocks one, maybe two, of everything customers see here. He has stacks of catalogs they can order from if they’d like more options.In an industry increasingly dominated by online retailers and big-box stores, Brandywine’s business model is customer service: Employees here will spend hours, if needed, helping customers decide on the right fixture. Those on the fence can take a light home to try it out, no obligation to buy.Still, Mr. Vari must keep his prices competitive — and his margins healthy enough to pay his bills. That’s why the letters from suppliers concerned him this fall. “Price increase announcement,” one read, explaining that the September wave of tariffs would push up costs of several brands by 6 percent. “I can only hope that the trade war ceases before another 15 percent tariff increase goes into effect,” another said. Some of his invoices began breaking out a “tariff per unit” so Mr. Vari could see what the trade war was already costing him.In the early letters, suppliers said they were absorbing some of the tariff costs themselves. But they have increasingly warned store owners to stock up on inventory ahead of any further escalation, which the letters say will be almost entirely passed on as price increases. Big-box retailers have the money and the shelf space to stock up. Mr. Vari does not.He has shielded some, but not all, customers from price increases so far. The decision is all about margins. Mr. Vari said he couldn’t afford to absorb tariff costs on everyday home lighting, where industry competition is higher and profit margins are already low. Their prices have risen in his showroom, so that every sale does not actually cost him money.Mr. Vari’s bigger margins come from large-scale lighting projects, like kitchen renovations and landscaping. He has not raised prices there yet, because he does not want to drive away customers, viewing it as a trade-off between lower profits today for a larger clientele in the long-run. If the tariffs rise again, however, he will have to raise those prices.“We’ll still be O.K.,” Mr. Vari said, “because I won’t be a pig about it.”But he worries, he said, about “customers never pulling the trigger” if a large project suddenly costs $1,000 more than it would have.Mr. Vari has been in the lighting business, in one way or another, for 40 years. He recalls when a large share of the products he sold were made in the United States. That was the 1980s, before the industry migrated to China.What is left of the domestic lighting industry today, he said, is so high-end that he cannot afford to stock it. “Great products,” Mr. Vari said. “But the whole idea of bringing the industry back here? That’s what it will be. High-paid people. High-paid producers. And only the rich will be able to afford them.”Mr. Trump’s promises to bring that type of manufacturing back to the United States are “political bullcrap,” Mr. Vari said. “Some people believe that just because Trump’s pressuring China, we’re going to be an industrial powerhouse again. It’s not going to happen.”Mr. Vari recently warned customers about the impact of tariffs in a social media post, where he said Mr. Trump’s actions were going to make lighting more expensive. It drew immediate criticism from Mr. Trump’s supporters. “The haters came like that,” Mr. Vari said. “I’ll never do a post like that again.”Instead, he is spreading the word about price increases in traditional small-business fashion: owner to customer, one person at a time.BEIJING — A senior Chinese trade official called on Saturday for a compromise between the United States and China that could make a trade deal easier to reach this spring. But it could also lead to a more fragile agreement, which could fall apart quickly should trade frictions rise again.Over the past year, the most contentious issue in the countries’ trade talks has been the Trump administration’s demand for what it calls an enforcement provision, which would allow the United States to monitor China’s behavior and put penalties in place if the Chinese violated the deal.The Trump administration has pressed China to accept an agreement allowing the United States to unilaterally reimpose tariffs if it concludes that China has not gone through with structural changes to its economy. In the past month, the administration has also pushed for a broader enforcement mechanism, which would include the right to reimpose tariffs for any category of goods in which imports from China surge.In exchange, the Trump administration would roll back at least some of the tariffs it placed on $250 billion of imports from China that it imposed last year, penalties that have strained ties between the governments, rocked financial markets and thrown the future of companies that operate in both countries in doubt.Chinese officials have strongly resisted the idea of an enforcement provision. They worry that the Trump administration, or future ones, could invoke it at any time to restart trade frictions.But Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, raised a possible compromise at a news conference in Beijing on Saturday morning. He said China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions against the other side after an agreement was struck.“Any implementation mechanism must go in both directions, fair and equal,” Mr. Wang said, using China’s preferred term for an enforcement mechanism. He spoke at an annual news conference given by the Chinese Commerce Ministry’s top officials, in conjunction with the 11-day session of the country’s rubber-stamp legislature, the National People’s Congress.Mr. Wang did not address another aspect of the enforcement question that has deeply divided the United States and China. While the Trump administration wants the right to reimpose tariffs unilaterally, China’s Commerce Ministry has favored creating a lengthy process of bilateral consultations if either side has a grievance.In testimony before Congress on Feb. 27, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, outlined a possible method for enforcing the deal under which the two sides would hold a regular series of meetings at multiple levels of government, and, if China violated the agreement, American tariffs would spring back into force.The details of that proposal aren’t fully clear. But some American businesses are wary of a deal that would only allow them to air complaints through the government, as Mr. Lighthizer’s description seemed to suggest. They said such an arrangement could be time-consuming and ultimately lack the capacity to address many of the problems faced by the thousands of American companies operating in China.Other trade deals that the United States has signed in the past have included different methods that companies could use to resolve problems, like a special court for investors. But the Trump administration has been suspicious of those kinds of arrangements, viewing them as a potential infringement on American sovereignty.American businesses also contend that having the main penalty for violating the agreement be the reimposition of tariffs risks creating lasting uncertainty. The companies are now weighing whether to continue to invest in China or whether the prospect of additional levies would make it less risky to move operations abroad.As long as the threat of tariffs looms, the United States and China could resolve their differences in the coming months, only to find themselves back in a similar stalemate next year.“We could definitely see ourselves in yet another period of uncertainty,” said Erin Ennis, senior vice president of the U.S.-China Business Council.Mr. Wang did not answer a question about whether Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping might meet in Florida this month to seal a trade deal. Tentative plans for such a summit meeting have been put in doubt by continued disagreement over an enforcement mechanism, and over what limits China might accept on its ability to subsidize high-tech manufacturing.If the two sides agree on an enforcement provision that covers import surges, it might be more useful to the United States.Research by Brad Setser, who was a Treasury economist in the Obama administration and is now at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, has found broad stagnation in American exports of manufactured goods over the past few years, a possible sign of eroding American competitiveness. By contrast, Chinese exports to countries all over the world have been surging.China wants the United States to remove all of the extra tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last year. That would leave China with its average tariffs of 7.5 percent on imports from all over the world, compared to 5 percent for the European Union and 3 percent for the United States.China contends that it is still a developing country and therefore should not have to operate under the same trade rules as the West. Commerce Minister Zhong Shan said at the news conference on Saturday that any reform of the World Trade Organization, which the Trump administration has sought to overhaul, should respect the different needs of developing countries.Mr. Trump has promised an ambitious agreement that would address ever-rising American trade deficits with China at a time when Beijing poses a growing geopolitical challenge to the United States. China has built the world’s largest navy and an archipelago of air bases on artificial islands in the South China Sea, and it has tried to promote its combination of single-party authoritarianism and state-led economic growth as a global alternative to democracy and free markets.But the overall United States trade deficit, and specifically its deficit with China, further increased last year. Congressional Democrats have become increasingly critical of Mr. Trump on trade in recent days, accusing him of having become too willing to accept a weak deal just to have an agreementMr. Trump and his advisers continued to present a tough front on Friday, even as the president predicted a jump in the stock market if a trade deal were to be reached. “If this isn’t a great deal, we won’t make a deal,” he added.Mr. Wang said there had been progress during trade talks last month in Washington — and at least one moment of harmony. Vice Premier Liu He of China ordered a hamburger, while Mr. Lighthizer had a Chinese dish, chicken with eggplant sauce. Mr. Wang said the two men turned down offers of tea and coffee.“They were both drinking water, they wanted to find common ground,” he said.Private equity offers the promise of exclusive deals, outsize returns and enviable cocktail parties.But as seductive as these investments are, they can trap investors with onerous restrictions like high capital requirements and longtime commitments.Simply put, private equity is an investment in an asset that is not traded on a public stock market. It’s a catchall term that also includes debt, real estate and various esoteric forms of financing — all of which have different expectations and risks.The high returns offered by these private equity funds, and the minimal regulatory oversight, draw investors with deep pockets, like pension funds and wealthy individuals, who can meet the minimum investment requirement. The downsides are that the fees are high and the money is typically locked in for at least four to seven years.That has not stopped the industry from growing. Private market fund-raising rose nearly 4 percent globally in 2017 to $748 billion, according to a review by McKinsey & Company. That year, the private equity firm Apollo Global Management raised a record $24.6 billion for its ninth fund.But investors must understand the risks. Private equity investments are less liquid than public market securities, for starters, which makes them harder to cash out in a market downturn. And investors may be required to put in money later, an agreement known as a capital call.“You always have to think about the margin for safety,” regardless of the type of investment, said Tony Roth, chief investment officer at Wilmington Trust. “What happens if it doesn’t turn out the way you’re thinking?”This is the fourth in a five-part series looking at highly desirable assets that can deliver great returns but can also become burdens when owners need to offload them quickly. Previous columns have looked at art, cars and collectibles.Private equity is different from the other types in this series because it is a financial investment, not a tangible asset. You can’t hang it on your wall, park it in your garage or serve it with dinner. But it has a cachet from the past successes of other investors, and the high barrier to entry creates an air of intrigue.The first step to making a private investment is understanding the pitch. After all, there are some 7,000 private investment managers across the globe.Determining the skill of the manager is important, so do your homework. Andrea Auerbach, global head of private investments at Cambridge Associates, a consultant and an adviser, said picking an average manager could affect your bottom line.The difference in returns between public equity managers who are in the middle of the pack and top performers was less than three percentage points, she said. But when it came to private equity, the difference in returns between mediocre and top managers was 21 points.A second step is spreading money across funds raised in different years, not just with different strategies. For instance, funds raised in the years before the recession made most of their investments when the market was at a peak, so they consequently performed worse than those that raised money in the years right after the downturn, when asset values were lower.A bigger problem for investors in 2008, though, was that private equity firms demanded money from investors in a capital call. The timing was bad because some investors had put their money in the stock market and had to sell their shares at steep discounts to avoid defaulting.“Most investors oversimplified it, which increased their risk,” said Adam I. Taback, deputy chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. “You have to figure in the growth of every other asset. What’s happened to the other 90 percent of your portfolio while you’re doing all this private equity planning?”Patience is a necessity in private investments.The marketing material for these funds suggest the investment will last about seven years, but in reality, with clauses in the documents about mandatory extensions, some of these funds can drag on for twice as long.“Let’s say you make a commitment to a manager and they turn out to be not who you think they are,” Ms. Auerbach said. “You can try to sell your slightly used private equity stake on the secondary market, or you can do your homework and make sure you can stay with the manager for 12 to 15 years.”“Everything,” she added, “takes longer than people think.”In the current economic cycle, advisers are urging their clients to do more due diligence and be cautious. “With at least a five- to seven-year outlook, it’s almost certain there is going to be a recession during that time frame,” Mr. Roth said.Investors should factor in periods of volatility. “When you know you’re going to have a recession, you need a much larger margin of safety than earlier in the cycle,” he said.To this end, Mr. Roth said, Wilmington Trust has formed partnerships with various private equity firms on behalf of its clients to make niche investments. One involved investing in distressed loans in Europe.In another recent deal, Wilmington Trust joined forces with a private equity firm that invested only in digital and personal security companies. Its $700 million fund, entering its second year, has already returned capital from successful deals.Uneven allocation can be a problem. As a private investment matures, managers are both asking for capital and returning money from earlier investments.“If you have $10 and want to go into small-cap equity, you write your check and you have your $10 of exposure,” said Katherine Rosa, global head of alternative investments at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. “With private equity, you commit capital and that’s drawn down over three-, four-, five-year periods and the distributions come back to you when the manager decides to sell that position.“So at any time,” she added, “the most you’ll be out of pocket is between $6.50 and $7.50 out of that $10.”That dynamic has tripped up some investors who pledged money to private equity funds that was allocated to another investment, hoping their returns would cover the call for more capital.For investors new to private equity, buying a stakes on the secondary market may be a good entry point, Ms. Auerbach said, because the buyer will have a sense of the fund’s performance and get returns more quickly.But the question remains: How much do you put into private equity to reap the benefits but avoid the downside? Unfortunately, there is no hard rule like the 60/40 split between stocks and bonds that serves as a baseline for investing in the public markets.Ms. Auerbach wrote a paper analyzing the private investment strategies of top-performing institutional investors and what individuals could learn from them. She found that most big institutions had at least 15 percent of their portfolio in private investments, with some going more than 40 percent.She said large, multigenerational families might be able to do the same, given their wealth and ability to remain comfortable with the illiquidity.Of course, that percentage depends not just on the asset base but also on a family’s spending. Ms. Rosa said clients needed to think about whether they could get returns on their other investments that were high enough to cover their lifestyle while they waited for their private equity investments to mature.That makes sense, but all those numbers need to be forecast out years, and by that time, the economy may have stalled.Just three months ago, investors were in a panic over the idea that the Federal Reserve might push borrowing costs too high and tip the United States economy into a recession. Now, Wall Street is toying with the idea that the central bank could actually be cutting interest rates by the end of the year. Those forecasts are evident in the market for interest rate futures, where the odds of another interest rate increase in 2019 have fallen to zero, from about 30 percent in December, while the chance of a decrease in rates has risen to almost one in three. One reason for the changing forecasts? The Fed’s own signal to be more patient as it evaluates whether or not to keep raising interest rates. Since the central bank’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, first spoke about this newfound patience, stocks have soared more than 15 percent. “It’s been a night-and-day difference, the outlook for stocks going from December into the first quarter this year,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York. “And I think you could say that Federal Reserve policy was very important in underpinning the stock market rally.”On Wednesday, the Fed left interest rates unchanged and members of its monetary policy committee issued projections that showed they expected no interest rate increases in 2019. Although stocks ended the day slightly lower, they rose in the afternoon after the central bank announced its decision.The Fed isn’t the only reason that the market is up. Some analysts point toward rising hopes for a United States-China trade deal as helping to lift important technology and industrial shares. But sectors sensitive to interest rates — small companies for which borrowing costs make up a significant expense, and homebuilders and carmakers whose customers depend on financing — have posted some of the bigger gains in this rally.The stock market has risen even as forecasts for economic growth have shown concern about a slowdown. Economists expect that the United States grew at an annualized pace of less than 2 percent in the first quarter, a slowdown from the 3 percent growth posted in 2018. And stock analysts have continued to downgrade their expectations for profits this year. Since the end of 2018, full-year profit estimates for companies in the S&P 500 have declined 3 percent, according to FactSet, a financial data provider.Investors who have so far sat out the 2019 rally, because of concerns about the economy or profits, may be coming around to the idea that it is a mistake to do so when the Fed is so clearly the primary driver of gains. Last week, more than $25 billion surged into funds that buy American stocks, according to data from EPFR Global, a firm that tracks mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. “It could be that the chase is on,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “People could be suddenly saying, ‘I’ve got to get involved.’”WASHINGTON — The Federal Reserve said Wednesday that the United States economy was slowing more than it had previously thought and painted a far less rosy economic picture than the White House as it left interest rates unchanged and signaled little appetite for raising them again in the near future.Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, said the economy “is in a good place” in a news conference. But he and his colleagues said growth appeared to be slowing from last year, under the weight of the Trump administration’s trade war, economic slowdowns in Europe and China and fading stimulus from the Republican tax cuts of 2017.The Fed now expects 2.1 percent growth this year, down from the 2.3 percent it forecast in December — and more than a percentage point less than the 3.2 percent growth the White House predicts. The outlook for 2020 is even more bleak, with the Fed now projecting growth of just 1.9 percent.The downbeat assessment comes as the Fed sees signs of weakness in areas like consumer spending and business investment, which Mr. Powell said “suggest that growth is slowing somewhat more than expected.” Average monthly job growth, while strong, “appears to have stepped down from last year’s strong pace,” he added.Mr. Powell tried to reassure markets by saying “economical fundamentals are still very strong,” but he acknowledged that recent developments both domestically and abroad were making it harder for the American economy to grow as quickly as it did last year.“We see a situation where the European economy has slowed substantially,” he said, adding that China’s economy has also weakened.Forecasts released at the end of the two-day meeting show the typical member of the Federal Open Market Committee now expects not to raise rates at all this year, an abrupt halt to what had been five consecutive quarters of rate increases to the current range of 2.25 to 2.5 percent. Most officials now expect a single rate increase in 2020 and none in 2021. In December, when forecasts were last released, Fed officials said they expected two rate increases this year and another in 2020.Mr. Powell showed little concern about inflation — which has stayed below the Fed’s 2 percent target — rising to levels that would trigger an immediate rate increase in order to prevent a rapid escalation of prices across the economy.Instead, Mr. Powell did not rule out the possibility — based on the current condition of the economy — that the central bank’s next move could be a rate cut. “The data are not currently sending a signal that we need to move in one direction or another,” he said.By signaling it will not raise rates without a clear change in conditions, the Fed is effectively giving Mr. Trump what he wants from monetary policy, but with a twist. The president has publicly pushed Mr. Powell to stop raising rates. But if the Fed is correct and growth falls well below 3 percent this year, without a single rate increase, it will be difficult for Mr. Trump to pin the blame on Mr. Powell.The 1.9 percent growth the Fed now expects in 2020 is down from a 2 percent forecast in December. But the projections include even worse possibilities: At least one committee member forecasts growth of only 1.6 percent for 2019. In December, the lowest forecast was 2 percent for the year.White House officials see growth staying above 3 percent for the next few years, provided Mr. Trump can continue implementing his economic agenda, including another round of tax cuts, a $1 trillion infrastructure plan and additional deregulation.Most private forecasters’ growth predictions for this year run closer to the Fed’s than the White House’s. That includes the chief executives of the Business Roundtable, who said in a quarterly survey released Wednesday that their expectations for sales, hiring and investment fell at the start of the year. They predict the economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2019.The gap between White House and Fed forecasts has never been wider in the years since the Great Recession ended in 2009. The two outlooks have clashed in the past — during the terms of Presidents George Bush and George W. Bush — for fundamental reasons, said Diane Swonk, the chief economist at Grant Thornton.“One is a forecast that is meant to be as accurate as possible and produce the best monetary policy outcomes,” Ms. Swonk said. “The other is a forecast that can’t escape political and ideological desires.”The diverging forecasts underscore the differences in how the administration and the Fed judge both the risks to economic growth this year and the evidence that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts have fundamentally strengthened the economy.Administration officials insist that the $1.5 trillion tax cut will continue to accelerate business investment and draw more and more workers into the labor force, accelerating growth. Mr. Trump promoted his economic plan in Lima, Ohio, on Wednesday, saying it would produce record job and wage growth.“We just came out, another chart, we just came out with numbers, the economic report of the president, 3.1 percent G.D.P., the first time in 14 years,” Mr. Trump said, referring to data showing economic output rose 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2018 from a year earlier. While the Fed expressed concern that Mr. Trump’s trade policies could drag down growth, the president said his tariffs on imported metals and Chinese goods were bringing jobs back to America.“Everyone said you couldn’t do it, you couldn’t bring back manufacturing jobs,” he said. “You would need a magic wand. We are bringing them back beyond anybody’s expectations.”Mr. Powell said on Wednesday that it was difficult to discern the law’s permanent effects on the supply of workers and productivity.“We hope they’re very large,” he said.Asked about the Fed’s deviation from the White House’s economic growth projections that were released on Tuesday, Mr. Powell said he had not seen those numbers.“The Fed underscored patience and a strong desire to allow inflation to run above target,” researchers at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a research note. “As Powell said in his opening remarks, the Fed’s overarching goal is to sustain the economic expansion. This unprecedented dovish turn clearly shows such commitment.”Yields on the 10-year Treasury note — a bellwether for a range of consumer borrowing rates — dropped sharply after the Fed statement was released as investors digested the potential that the Fed could be done raising rates for some time. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.52 percent — its lowest level since January 2018. Stocks, which had been negative for most of the day, rallied and briefly regained positive territory after the announcement. However, they lost steam in the last hour of trading, and the S&P 500 closed down 0.3 percent.Analysts had been expecting the Fed to shift its forecasts at the meeting, but not by this much.Eleven committee members said they do not expect any rate increases this year. Four said they expected one. None expected a rate cut. In 2020, a majority of members expected at least one rate increase, although some expected none.Fed officials also announced that they would end an effort to slim the central bank’s massive holdings of government-backed securities in September, after slowing it down in May. The Fed accumulated $4.5 trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities in an effort to stimulate the economy after the Great Recession. It has been slowly winnowing those holdings as the economy has recovered.Many analysts had expected officials to announce the September end of the balance sheet wind-down, which Mr. Powell had foreshadowed in a recent speech at Stanford University. By October, the Fed said on Wednesday, officials will be shifting the composition of the balance sheet, moving out of agency debt and mortgage-backed securities and into primarily Treasury bonds.Officials appeared to hasten to end the balance sheet reduction under pressure from financial markets. Many analysts blamed stock market volatility in December and January on the Fed’s wind-down process.In announcing the end of the reduction, Fed officials acknowledged that they were stopping short of what many analysts had expected when the reduction began. They said the total holdings on the balance sheet once the wind-down ends “will likely still be somewhat above the level of reserves necessary to efficiently and effectively implement monetary policy.”Carrying a larger-than-expected balance sheet — and operating with interest rates at what remain historically low levels — could hinder the Fed in battling an economic downturn in the near future.Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A best-selling Boeing airplane is groundedThe future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Trump’s next budget fightUndeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]Would a trade deal with China have too much compromise?In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”A big week for BrexitTomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.Jay Powell says Trump can’t fire himThe Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.The bull market is 10. Why so sad?We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”Twitter is struggling to change how we tweetA year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.” I.M.F. chief calls for a global tax shake-upIn an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Revolving doorSam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.The speed readDealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SINGAPORE — Has the failure of Eleven James, the American pioneer in renting luxury timepieces that suddenly closed last summer, dampened investors’ or users’ enthusiasm for luxury timepiece rentals?On the contrary.The sharing economy so beloved of millennials — who seem to prefer renting everything from bridal gowns to transportation — is continuing to spread among watch fans in France, the United States, Singapore and beyond. And, operating almost entirely through the internet, there is little sign of it abating.For example, Sidne Yeo, a 28-year-old consultant based in Singapore who advises Australian companies that want to penetrate Chinese e-commerce, already had a collection of five watches. But in 2018 he decided to join Acquired Time, an online club based in the city-state that had been introduced in March the previous year.Mr. Yeo said he wanted to try watches that he probably would buy at some point — like the so-called “Rolex Hulk,” a Rolex Submariner with a green bezel.“I thought it was a great idea,” he said. “I decided to give it a shot.”Roy Tong, Acquired Time’s co-founder, had used his company’s money to amass a collection of about 40 watches now grown to 80, mostly for men, with what he estimated as a total retail value of about 1 million Singaporean dollars ($740,465). He said he wanted to create an online business that would allow members to “test drive” watches before purchase.“At the beginning, I thought that my clients would be fresh graduates in their 20s and 30s who were purchasing their first watch,” Mr. Tong said, “but we soon discovered that the bulk of our clients is made of senior professionals who already have a watch, and often more than one.”For these customers, he said, Acquired Time is like an “extension of their watch collection.”The club requires a six-month membership and has three fee levels that correspond with the type of watch that may be rented: Subscribers who pay 175 Singapore dollars a month have access to watches like a classic IWC Pilot Mark XVIII Heritage (which has a retail price in the United States of $4,350). The 275-dollar subscription includes watches like a Rolex Submariner (which retails for approximately $7,500), and the 375-dollar subscription, watches like an Audemars Piguet Safari (approximately $26,000).Prospective new members generally reach Mr. Tong through the company website or a WhatsApp message; they are vetted, which can take about three days, and, if successful, a company concierge then delivers the member’s watch to his or her home. About 100 people already are Acquired Time members, and Mr. Tong is planning to expand the business into Hong Kong this month.And in recent months two similar businesses have begun operating in Singapore: TenTwo Club, established by Dan Kruimel, Ronald Chew and Dan Mills, and Specter One, founded by Sendi Heng.At the startEleven James began as a watch rental business, founded in 2013 in New York by Randy Brandoff. He had been the chief marketing officer of NetJets, the Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary that sold part ownership or shares of private business jets; he took the role of chief executive in his new online business.But the model had changed to memberships by the time the club was reintroduced in 2017, and Olivier Reza, artistic director of the Paris-based jewelry house that bears his family name, had become chief executive. He had been an early investor in Eleven James.“We are focusing on what really matters, which is the experience of beautiful things,” Mr. Reza said in an interview with The New York Times. He talked about the company’s pending expansion into jewelry and contemporary art, saying that renting luxury goods was the wave of the future.Then, last August, the watch blog Hodinkee reported that the company had failed to find investment, lost its credit line and was shutting down. Several employees, the story said, refused to comment. The failure, however, seems to have been the business — not the idea.Sharing businesses from Rent the Runway to Zipcar have been growing. For example, the “End of Ownership” chapter in “The State of Fashion 2019” report by the Business of Fashion and McKinsey & Company outlined, “the shift to new ownership models is driven by growing consumer desire for variety, sustainability and affordability and sources suggest that the resale market, for instance, could be bigger than fast fashion within 10 years.”A survey of more than 275 fashion industry executives, used to help develop the report contents, found that 41 percent of the respondents felt the rental market would be more relevant to consumers this year than it was in 2018.And Alexander Thiel, a partner at McKinsey in Zurich, said that millennials, in particular, want their purchases to suit their lifestyles and “luxury is becoming more experience focused,” suggesting that the idea of being able to wear numerous luxury watches for a fraction of their cost is appealing.The business modelYet even as online watch clubs are expanding, they aren’t all using the same business model.Mr. Tong, for example, bought his club’s stock of watches from private collectors in Asia. He knows that some other clubs use watches offered on consignment by their owners — a method that Eleven James used that is also employed by Singaporean Specter One — but he said he doubts Asian collectors would be interested in risking their timepieces to “earn a few hundred dollars a month.”Yet consignments have been the cornerstone of Luxothèque, a rental company founded four months ago in Paris by Thomas Blavet, a former manager at Cartier and Chaumet, and which already has served about 25 customers. Its online site displays more than 100 watches, men’s and women’s models by Rolex, Cartier, Jaeger-LeCoultre and even a French diving watch specialist, Ralf Tech.“The stock comes from professional and private owners who entrust us with their pieces, and we pay them after each renting, like Airbnb in a way,” Mr. Blavet said, adding that he plans to add an owners’ section to the website so they can monitor rentals and income independently.Consignments are also being considered as a way to expand Watch It, an online club based in Paris that Vincent Robert and Pierric Soustre founded in 2016.Mr. Robert had bought himself a Rolex for his 25th birthday and said he realized the next day that he was already bored with it. He wanted a classic leather watch for a dinner reception and a Hublot to wear to a sporting event.A quick search for “rent a watch” gave him zero results, so he called Mr. Soustre and said, as he recalled, “I need to talk to you about a new business idea.” Two days later their company was born.Mr. Robert said most of the club’s current stock of about 20 watches were acquired through loans from a bank and one of Mr. Soustre’s relatives. But they want to expand into consignments, although, Mr. Robert added, the security of such watches would be a concern.Vyrent, however, found that the scores of watches sitting idle in wholesalers’ stockrooms and retailers’ drawers were the way to supplement its offerings. The New York-based online club has made arrangements with scores of such businesses so that, when any of its approximately 1,000 members selects one of their watches, the retailer or wholesaler is paid a portion of the person’s membership fee. “This way we can guarantee our customers access to thousands of watches,” said Michael Oshinaya, the company’s executive director of corporate strategy. And, this stream has the advantage of not burdening the balance sheet.Vyrent offers three-, six- and 12-month subscriptions, with rates matching watch categories. Members, then, can exchange watches as many times as they wish, wearing a stainless steel Audemars Piguet Royal Oak one week and a full diamond yellow gold presidential Rolex Day-Date II the next. There also is a “rent to buy” service that offers the opportunity to rent a watch before committing to a purchase.Even watch companies are getting into rentals. As the Swiss maker DuBois et Fils — which offers 20 of its models to shareholders and even a rebate for posting travel photos — asks on its site: “Why buy when you can rent?”Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Prosecutors and regulators circle BoeingIn the wake of two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane that shared similarities, Boeing finds itself with prosecutors and regulators inspecting its development processes and safety assessments.• A grand jury in Washington, D.C., issued a subpoena dated March 11 — the day after the Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents from at least one person involved in the development of the 737 Max jets, the WSJ reports.• The Transportation Department inspector general’s office was also reportedly examining the plane’s design certification before the second deadly crash.• An investigation by The Seattle Times found that the F.A.A. delegated wide responsibility for the 737 Max safety assessment to Boeing itself. The resulting analysis included “crucial flaws,” according to the investigation.• And Bloomberg reports that as early as seven years ago, F.A.A. employees warned that Boeing “had too much sway over safety approvals of new aircraft.”Boeing said in a statement on Sunday that “aircraft certification processes are well established and have consistently produced safe aircraft designs.” It added that the “737 Max certification program followed the F.A.A.’s standard certification process.”Lyft thinks it’s worth up to $23 billionThe ride-hailing company will start the road show for its I.P.O. today in New York City. It won’t be short on ambition: Lyft hopes to achieve a valuation of as much as $23 billion.In its updated prospectus, Lyft said that it hopes to raise nearly $2.4 billion from its I.P.O. That figure is close to the $2.16 billion in revenue that it generated last year.At the high end of its proposed stock price, $68, the company would be valued at $23 billion. That would make the stakes held by each of the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, worth hundreds of millions of dollars apiece. The company is expected to price its offering on March 28, and would then trade on the Nasdaq the next day.Lyft is poised to become one of the biggest market debuts by a tech company since the Alibaba Group’s I.P.O. in 2014. (Until Uber goes public later this year, at least.)But the I.P.O. is not without controversy. It’s facing backlash from investors who aren’t happy about a dual-class stock structure. Paul Singer, the head of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, is one of them, writing in an FT op-ed:“Those with the insight and daring to found a business deserve our respect. But once they sell the vast majority of the company to the public, they should not be allowed to run it forever without any shareholder input. Public ownership must mean public accountability.”Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank take their merger effort publicThe two German lenders announced yesterday that they will formally begin merger talks. Now they must convince critics that combining is a good thing.Deutsche Bank said it was reviewing “strategic options” for shoring up its profitability and growth. Christian Sewing, the firm’s C.E.O., told employees, “I have consistently stressed that consolidation in the German and European banking sector is an important topic for us.”The combined bank would be one of Europe’s biggest, with $2 trillion in assets and about one-fifth of all private customers in Germany.Going public signals that the deal has political backing. Germany’s finance minister has argued that the country needs a strong national champion to compete against foreign banks. (Here is the FT’s list of the key decision-makers for any deal.)But opposition to a merger is strong. German unions have criticized the plan, fearing tens of thousands of job cuts. And Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg Opinion warns that it wouldn’t fix the bigger problems in the German banking system.It’s hard work making the world shun HuaweiThe Trump administration’s campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei equipment in their 5G wireless networks has faltered, Julian E. Barnes and Adam Satariano of the NYT write.American officials have been pressuring and threatening other nations to shun Huawei. The push is rooted in U.S. concerns that Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat, and could help Beijing spy on other nations.But it’s not really working. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates have all signaled that they are unlikely to follow America’s lead.The U.S. campaign has been criticized for a lack of evidence. American intelligence briefings have reportedly failed to clearly show how the Chinese government has used Huawei to steal information. (Read what five experts and two senators have to say about whether it is a threat.) Some European and Asian officials also believe that President Trump may not fully support the fight.American officials want to find other ways to curb Huawei’s rise, Mr. Barnes and Mr. Satariano write, “including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.”More: Huawei has built its own operating system for smartphones and computers, to be used if the company can no longer use software developed by Google and Microsoft.Wall Street’s first #MeToo case could go to trialThe financial sector hasn’t felt the impact of #MeToo as much as other industries. But as David Gelles of the NYT reports, a lawsuit against the asset manager TCW could change that.• Sara Tirschwell, who created a distressed-debt fund at TCW but was fired in 2017, has sued the firm; her former boss, Jess Ravich; and the C.E.O., David Lippman. She claimed that her dismissal was retaliation against her for reporting a sexual harassment claim against Mr. Ravich, gender discrimination and a breach of contract.• Ms. Tirschwell alleges that Mr. Ravich pressured her into sex several times during her tenure with the firm. The first encounter made her feel, according to her lawsuit, “as if rejection would mean the end of Ravich’s crucial support.”• TCW, Mr. Ravich and Mr. Lippman denied the allegations. “I was Sara’s biggest supporter at TCW and had no role in the decision to fire her,” Mr. Ravich said.• So far, there’s been no talk of a settlement. Mr. Gelles writes, “Days in court have been rare for the movement — and rarer still for Wall Street, where grievances are typically dealt with in private, and by wire transfer, when they are dealt with at all.”S&P 500 chiefs got big raises last yearDespite delivering disappointing returns to investors, many C.E.O.s saw their compensation climb last year, according to the WSJ.• “Median compensation for 132 chief executives of S&P 500 companies reached $12.4 million in 2018, up from $11.7 million for the same group in 2017,” the WSJ calculates.• “Most of these C.E.O.s received substantial raises — the median was 6.4 percent — even though the December stock-market swoon meant most of the companies finished out the year posting sluggish shareholder returns.”• “Markets did pretty well, companies did well, and the economy held up,” Robin Ferracone, an executive-pay consultant, told the WSJ.• But she also said that boards may have been thinking forward to an economic slowdown, adding, “They know they’re going to have to bring it down when the bloom’s off the rose.”Big Tech’s extremism problemThe shooting at a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, was designed to go viral on the internet. What can we do about it?“The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook,” Kevin Roose of the NYT writes. “The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them.”“Online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs,” Mr. Roose adds. “People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.”But telling terrorists from trolls isn’t easy for tech companies, Christopher Mims of the WSJ argues. Knowing which online extremists will erupt with an act of violence can be virtually impossible, and their broadcasts of sudden acts of violence can be hard to automatically block.More needs to be done. “We need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore,” Mr. Roose writes. “It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better.”Revolving doorPG&E is reportedly close to naming Bill Johnson, the outgoing head of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as its next C.E.O.Google named Scott Beaumont, the head of its greater China and Korea operations, as the chief of its Asia-Pacific team.Stuart Benson resigned as the C.F.O. of MoviePass.Princeville Capital, a venture capital firm that invests in climate technology, has recruited Leonardo DiCaprio as an adviser.The speed readDeals• Fidelity National Information Services agreed to buy an international payments processor, Worldpay, for $34 billion. (The companies)• Caesars Entertainment and Eldorado Resorts are reportedly in early merger talks. (Reuters)• Private equity firms like KKR and CVC Capital Partners are reportedly interested in buying Bayer’s animal-health division. (Bloomberg)• PagerDuty, a popular start-up that alerts I.T. workers to tech problems that need fixing, publicly filed for an I.P.O. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Investors eagerly await the Treasury Department’s rules for investing in tax-advantaged opportunity zones. (NYT)• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro over a monologue questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the U.S. — and President Trump was unhappy about the move. (NYT)• Cindy Yang, the former owner of a massage parlor busted in a prostitution ring, has come under scrutiny for political activities, including donations to the president’s re-election campaign. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to put her Brexit deal up for a third parliamentary vote this week, but that is likely contingent on gaining the backing of the Democratic Unionist Party. (FT)• Meanwhile, the Labour Party appears set to support a plan that would seek a public vote on Mrs. May’s deal if it is approved by lawmakers. (Reuters)Trade• The U.S. and China are pushing for a meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, but negotiators are still grappling over the details. (NYT)• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska has sued the U.S. Treasury Department over sanctions placed on him last year. (CNBC)• President Xi Jinping of China starts a series of state visits to Europe this week in a bid to bolster trade with the continent. (Bloomberg)Tech• Marc Andreessen, a Facebook board member, reportedly met with the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie in 2016. If true, it would suggest he understood the extent of the company’s harvesting of Facebook data. He denies the claim. (Observer, Business Insider)• In related news, the academic behind Cambridge Analytica’s data mining has sued Facebook for defamation. (NYT)• Apple is making a billion-dollar bet to take on Netflix. Will it work? (NYT)• Tech investors are now including #MeToo clauses in their start-up deals. (FT)• Breaking up tech giants has suddenly become a populist concept — but not in San Francisco. (NYT, Bloomberg)Best of the rest• In the wake of the admissions scandal, colleges are rethinking athletic special admissions. (WSJ)• The Fed is likely to say later this week that it has little appetite for more interest rate rises this year. (WSJ)• Why do successful joint ventures turn sour? It’s often because the success breeds a desire for control that the venture sought to avoid. (Economist)• The European Central Bank is unhappy about the E.U.’s plans for increasing supervision of clearing houses. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Riley Newman, a former head of data science at Airbnb, set out in mid-2017 to raise a venture capital fund that would invest in a multitude of tech trends.But he quickly realized that potential investors were not interested in that kind of fund. Instead, all they wanted to hear about were his former Airbnb colleagues and whether they might start their own companies.“It was, ‘Yeah, all that stuff is fine, but Airbnb, right?’” Mr. Newman, 36, said. “Airbnb was where we had a competitive edge on the market.”So Mr. Newman and his partners at Wave Capital adjusted their pitch: They said they were creating a fund to invest specifically in Airbnb employees who were planning to leave the company to become entrepreneurs. It worked. He and his partners quickly secured $55 million and now are preparing to make a flood of investments after the $31 billion home rental start-up goes public sometime in the next year and employees cash out their shares.“We know they are planning to start companies,” Mr. Newman said of Airbnb employees, adding that in the last week alone he had heard from four who left to pursue their entrepreneurial dreams.Everyone else in Silicon Valley seems to know it, too. As Lyft, Pinterest, Postmates, Slack and Uber — among some of this decade’s most prominent start-ups — get ready to list on the stock market, investors are preparing to write checks to a new generation of companies created by their workers.It’s part of Silicon Valley’s often-incestuous circle of life. The start-up world projects a meritocratic image, but in reality, it is a small, tightknit club where success typically hinges on whom you know.In this model, employees of tech start-ups frequently leave the companies once they have been enriched by their firms’ initial public offerings. Then networks of alumni from these companies — called mafias — support their peers’ new businesses with hiring, advice and money.The cycle goes back to at least the 1950s, when Fairchild Semiconductor, one of Silicon Valley’s earliest successes, was started by a group of disgruntled Shockley Semiconductor employees called the Traitorous Eight.Decades later, early employees of PayPal, known as the PayPal Mafia, are more famous for their successes after leaving the company — many of which they collaborated on with one another — than for their initial breakthrough in digital payments. The group includes Elon Musk and Peter Thiel, as well as the creators of YouTube, Yelp and LinkedIn.Silicon Valley is now anticipating new mafias connected to Uber, Airbnb and their brethren after the companies go public.“It’s going to trigger a massive explosion in entrepreneurship,” said Howard Lindzon, an entrepreneur in Phoenix who invests in five to 10 venture capital funds a year. He said he particularly wanted to put money into funds with connections to the Uber and Airbnb networks.When venture capitalists pounceVenture capital firms are already hiring former employees from Uber and other I.P.O.-ready companies to get a foothold in their networks. Some of the fiercest recruiting has been of Uber executives, with venture firms including Sequoia Capital, GV, Javelin Venture Partners and Redpoint Ventures all adding former employees from the ride-hailing firm to their ranks.One recruit was Andrew Chen, who worked at Uber as head of rider growth and left the company last year. He has since joined the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner and hosts quarterly dinners for Uber alumni turned founders.Mr. Chen, 36, estimates that two dozen venture-backed start-ups have come out of Uber so far. Andreessen Horowitz has recently invested in two, which have not been announced.“Those are the prime start-up investing opportunities,” Mr. Chen said.The problem is that venture firms might create a brain drain from the likes of Airbnb and Uber if they keep luring the companies’ workers to start new companies. Talent, after all, is a precious commodity in Silicon Valley.Jonathan Golden, who worked as a director of product at Airbnb and who joined the venture firm NEA last year, said Airbnb was fine with his plans to invest in former employees. He said he had discussed his intentions with Airbnb’s chief executive, Brian Chesky, before he left the company in 2017.“I’m not actively trying to have people leave Airbnb,” Mr. Golden said. “But if someone is going to leave, I want to be supportive of them, and Brian is supportive of them as well.”Nick Papas, an Airbnb spokesman, said, “We’re always sad when talented people move on, but it’s been great to watch so many of our former colleagues succeed.”Uber declined to comment.In February, Annie Kadavy, a former Uber executive who is now a venture capitalist at Redpoint, announced an investment in Ike, a self-driving truck company created by — who else? — ex-Uber employees.Ms. Kadavy, 33, who left Uber last year, said her network of former ride-hailing colleagues would help her find and vet deals. In addition, it would help find talent to bring to other start-ups that Redpoint has invested in.“If you’re a person leaving a company, who are you going to ask about what company to join next?” she said. “Your friend who works at a venture firm, because their job is to have a point of view on a bunch of different businesses.”Friends in high (income) placesIn February 2018, Dan Hill and Michelle Rittenhouse, longtime Airbnb employees, felt the entrepreneurial itch and quit. They had a general idea to start a company that would make it easier for people to donate to charity, but not much else.The details didn’t matter to Wave Capital, which wanted to invest in them. “These are people we know can build great products,” said Mr. Newman. “They know us, they trust us. We know them, we trust them.”Within a few weeks of leaving Airbnb, Mr. Hill and Ms. Rittenhouse had secured $2 million — including from Wave Capital — for Alma, their newly formed company focused on philanthropy.Entrepreneurs typically make dozens of pitches over several months to raise financing. But Mr. Hill said the relatively quick fund-raising for his start-up was not a surprise.“We already had a strong relationship,” he said. “So when we pitched the idea for Alma and our initial plans, it was an easier conversation.”It’s a common story among former employees of hot start-ups. Andrew Chapin, who previously worked at Uber, also said it wasn’t hard to round up $3.75 million last October for Basis, his new mental health start-up, thanks to his reputation among the Uber crowd.“When you look at V.C., there is a lot of pattern matching and trying to act on that, so if you worked at Uber, you must be O.K.,” Mr. Chapin, 31, said. “I didn’t have to do a lot of pitching.”It helps that many of his former colleagues are now millionaires, having cashed out their shares in private stock sales.A syndicate of several hundred former Uber employees are even investing in start-ups together. Josh Mohrer and William Barnes, early Uber employees who left in 2017, said they used a private email list to manage the syndicate’s deal selection, adding a few new people to the list each week as they “graduate” from the company. The group has backed around a dozen start-ups at a pace of around one a month, they said.To stay on top of all the new companies emerging from Uber, Mr. Mohrer and Mr. Barnes said, they have organized reunions of former employees in cities around the world, using a Facebook group with more than 1,000 members.The pair also plan to raise an investment fund dedicated to backing Uber alumni under the banner of Moving Capital, according to three people familiar with the project, who asked to remain anonymous because the details are private.It’s different this timeHow will Silicon Valley’s new mafias be different from those in the past?The Uber and Airbnb networks are part of a generation that pioneered the on-demand “gig economy” and everything that came with it. That means many fought real-world policy issues in cities, as opposed to primarily dealing with the digital world.“There are just not that many places to find people who have seen that kind of scale,” said Ryan Graves, Uber’s former senior vice president of global operations and a member of the company’s board.Each city that Uber, Airbnb, Lyft or Postmates expanded into created a new set of operational, regulatory and business challenges. Regulators balked. Rival business operators resisted. Neighbors protested. And people abused the platforms, over and over.Uber managers ran each city like a mini-start-up. “If you were the general manager of San Francisco or of Atlanta, you were the C.E.O. of your region,” Mr. Chen said. “It led to a really entrepreneurial approach from everyone.”The thorniest challenge for Uber alumni may be showing that they have learned from the company’s ugly 2017, when its toxic culture of harassment, discrimination and ethical lapses was exposed.Blaine Light, a former Uber employee, said he had taken the importance of creating an inclusive culture to heart. Half of the employees at Qwick, a 20-person start-up in Phoenix that he joined as a co-founder in 2018, are women, and the staff includes a mix of races, backgrounds and sexual orientations. Mr. Light said he emphasized a culture of humility.“Uber people, in general, are looking to take what we’ve learned and make something better this time,” he said.WASHINGTON — He likes one and admits to falling in love with the other. He treasures letters from each of them. And he believes the personal rapport he built with both could clear the way to historic agreements on trade and nuclear arms that have eluded his predecessors.To President Trump, all diplomacy is personal, especially with the two Asian strongmen he has courted most avidly, Kim Jong-un of North Korea and Xi Jinping of China.But Mr. Trump’s honeymoon with Mr. Kim came to an abrupt end in Vietnam last month, and his conviction that agreements between nations are little different than real estate deals between bosses now faces another stiff test with the Chinese president.In trade talks with China that are heading toward a potential meeting with Mr. Xi, Mr. Trump hopes to overcome decades of distrust to sign an agreement that would end a bitter trade war between the world’s two largest economies.But the debacle in Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, where Mr. Trump not only failed to strike a disarmament deal but also was miles apart from Mr. Kim, laid bare a fundamental weakness in his deal making: his belief that bluster and force of personality can bridge deep-rooted differences and lack of preparation.It also showed that strongmen, whom Mr. Trump has so ardently cultivated, can be as frustrating to negotiate with as democratically elected leaders.Even more than Mr. Kim, Mr. Xi would bring a complex mix of advantages and vulnerabilities to a meeting with Mr. Trump. Rather than calibrating his approach to those realities, some worry the president will fall prey to the same pitfalls and miscalculations that doomed his meeting with the North Korean dictator.The Chinese share those qualms. Plans for the two leaders to meet at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s estate in Palm Beach, Fla., at the end of March are now on hold, largely because the Chinese fear that the president could walk out on Mr. Xi like he did on Mr. Kim.“Trump is running the same play,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a former China adviser to President Barack Obama. “But it’s fundamentally flawed, whether you’re dealing with a strong leader in a totalitarian society or a strong leader in a diverse, integrated society.”In both cases, Mr. Medeiros said, the president is relying on his charm, as well as his ability to read people and improvise, to persuade his counterpart to agree to a difficult structural change: China, to overhaul its state-directed economy; North Korea, to give up a nuclear program that the Kim dynasty views as critical to its survival.Yet Mr. Trump has shown a propensity to relax his terms as the negotiations unfold. He went from demanding that North Korea rapidly and completely disarm to saying he was in no hurry, as long as Mr. Kim stopped testing nuclear bombs or missiles.He went from demanding that China abandon an array of what he calls predatory trade practices to undermining his own chief trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, when he began to explain the memorandums of understanding that would codify those concessions in a trade pact between the United States and China.“Based on the Trump-Kim summit, it is clear that Trump’s partners know a lot more about where their bottom line is than Trump does,” said Minxin Pei, an expert in United States-China relations at Claremont McKenna College.Having failed in Vietnam, he said, Mr. Trump might be even more motivated to make a deal with the Chinese president. Unlike the nuclear showdown with North Korea, which poses security risks but is a faraway threat to most Americans, the trade war with China has exacted heavy costs on American farmers, automakers and manufacturers.“Trump cares more about his re-election than about forcing structural change in China,” Mr. Pei said.Some of Mr. Trump’s top aides — like Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and the chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow — have urged him to find a compromise with Beijing, warning about the damage that his escalating tariffs could have on the stock market, which he views as a barometer of his presidency.The divisions between hard-liners and pragmatists on Mr. Trump’s economic team are more pronounced than on his national security team, where Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, and the national security adviser, John R. Bolton, urged him to walk away from a bad deal with North Korea.Mr. Kim and Mr. Xi, meanwhile, have shown an instinct to try to play Mr. Trump. In Hanoi, the North Korean leader proposed to dismantle a single plutonium reactor and extend the halt in nuclear and missile testing, in return for Mr. Trump’s lifting all economic sanctions.The Chinese have offered to buy billions of dollars of American oil, gas and soybeans, which would give Mr. Trump an easy victory, in return for the United States’ rolling back its tariffs. But they have not yet agreed to enforcement mechanisms against more pernicious practices, like the forced transfer of American technology.While Mr. Trump heaps praise on both leaders, there are telling differences in how he talks about them.“I like him and I believe he likes me a lot,” the president said of Mr. Xi in April 2017, when their relationship was in its early bloom. By last fall, when the trade war had heated up, Mr. Trump said, “He may not be a friend of mine anymore, but I think he probably respects me.”With Mr. Kim, Mr. Trump has taken a more playful tone. Last fall, he regaled supporters with how the two had gone from “fire and fury” to trading friendly letters. “And then we fell in love, O.K.?” he said. “No, really — he wrote me beautiful letters.”Mr. Trump is not yet ready to break up with Mr. Kim. But after the impasse in Hanoi, the president described him as “quite a character,” a line open to various interpretations.“Trump understands there is a difference between the dictator of a small country versus the head of state of the largest country in the world,” said Victor D. Cha, who negotiated with Pyongyang during the George W. Bush administration.Mr. Kim is a reclusive figure who traveled to Vietnam by train and governs with a tiny circle of cronies. Mr. Xi has roamed the world stage since rising to the top of the Communist Party in 2012. He fields a team of seasoned trade negotiators led by a Harvard-trained economist, Liu He.Some analysts argue that the months of working-level negotiations between Mr. Liu and Mr. Lighthizer would make an unexpected breakdown, like the one in Hanoi, less likely.“The nature of the negotiation is much different,” said Cheng Li, the director of the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution. “Both sides will have a much better understanding in advance of whether there is a chance of success.”And yet Mr. Trump’s mercurial personality looms large. The Chinese were caught off guard when he went ahead with tariffs on $200 billion of their exports. They were caught off guard when he walked away from Mr. Kim.The collapse in Hanoi, analysts said, has echoed loudly in Beijing, where officials are leery of sending Mr. Xi into another unpredictable encounter with Mr. Trump in Florida. With so much at stake, they are pushing to button up any agreement beforehand.For Mr. Trump, the biggest hurdle to a Nixon and Mao moment in Palm Beach may be that Mr. Xi is simply unwilling to risk the kind of on-the-fly deal making that the American president — and Mr. Kim — seem to relish.“The Chinese are obsessive about process,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, a former China adviser to Mr. Obama. “They don’t believe in the big guy swooping in. They haven’t done that since Mao.”Good Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Rate rises appear to be off the tableThe Federal Reserve painted a far less rosy economic picture than the White House as it left interest rates unchanged yesterday, and signaled little appetite for any raises in the near future, Jim Tankersley of the NYT writes.Growth appears to be slowing from last year, Jay Powell, the Fed chairman, said. That’s a result of the trade war, economic slowdowns in Europe and China and fading stimulus from the 2017 tax cuts. The central bank now expects 2.1 percent growth this year, down from its 2.3 percent forecast in December — and more than a percentage point less than the 3.2 percent the White House predicts.Rate hikes seem to be off the table. Forecasts show that Fed officials broadly expect not to raise rates at all this year, with a single rate increase in 2020 and none in 2021. In December, they expected two rate increases this year and another in 2020.“The Fed is effectively giving Mr. Trump what he wants from monetary policy, but with a twist,” Mr. Tankersley writes. “The president has publicly pushed Mr. Powell to stop raising rates. But if the Fed is correct and growth falls well below 3 percent this year, without a single rate increase, it will be difficult for Mr. Trump to pin the blame on Mr. Powell.”Wall Street couldn’t be happier. Sectors sensitive to interest rates have posted some of the bigger gains in the current stock market rally, Matt Phillips of the NYT writes, despite forecasts of an economic slowdown.More: Mr. Trump’s tax cut won’t power the growth he predicts, White House officials have conceded. C.E.O.s’ economic confidence, as measured by a Business Roundtable survey, fell for the fourth quarter in a row.Europe’s antitrust assault on Big Tech continuesEuropean regulators slapped Google with a $1.7 billion fine yesterday for antitrust violations involving the search service it offers other websites — the third major financial penalty imposed on the tech company in Europe since 2017.Google demanded websites using its search bar let it limit the display of any search-driven ads from rivals, according to E.U. officials. “There was no reason for Google to include these restrictive clauses in its contracts, except to keep its rivals out of the market,” Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s top antitrust official, said yesterday.The E.U. forced Google to change its behavior even before the fine. The company stopped its ad requirements when Ms. Vestager began her inquiry in 2016, leading to what Lionel Laurent of Bloomberg Opinion calls “clear changes to its business model,” which have “gone some way to opening it up slightly to more competition.”Europe isn’t done with Google yet. “The commission is continuing its investigations into other conduct by the company, including its handling of local search results,” the WSJ reports, adding that those inquiries may not lead to charges.Expect broader action against Big Tech. Adam Satariano of the NYT reports that the E.U. is expected to adopt new copyright proposals to stop unlicensed content being shared on tech platforms, as well as restrictions on spreading hate speech. And its antitrust lawyers are taking a close look at Amazon, Apple and Facebook as well.But does any of this matter? The E.U. has now fined Google $9.2 billion, but that’s a drop in the bucket compared to the company’s $137 billion in annual revenue, and its shares rose 2 percent yesterday. Some worry that, without breaking up these kinds of companies, it’s hard to get them to really change their behavior.Trump wants to keep Chinese tariffs for nowEven as his officials prepare for more negotiations with Beijing, President Trump said yesterday that he expects tariffs on Chinese imports to remain “for a substantial period of time,” Bob Davis and Rebecca Ballhaus of the WSJ report.• “ ‘We have to make sure that if we do the deal with China that China lives by the deal,’ Mr. Trump told reporters as he left Washington for Ohio.”• “The president didn’t explain whether the U.S. is pressing to keep in place tariffs on all the $250 billion of Chinese goods the U.S. has hit with levies, or some portion of them, nor did he indicate for how long.”• U.S. negotiators “are more willing to roll back at least some of the 10 percent tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods, which took effect in September as the U.S. tried to put more pressure on China.”• But they’re more resistant to removing 25 percent levies on $50 billion of Chinese goods, imposed in response to “harm to U.S. companies caused by China’s forced technology transfers.”• “As part of any enforcement plan, the U.S. is also asking China for another important concession — that it agree not to retaliate against U.S. tariffs reimposed for at least some violations of a trade pact.”Britain’s high-risk play for a Brexit delayWith just eight days to go until Britain is scheduled to withdraw from the E.U., a standoff appears to have put the possibility of a chaotic no-deal Brexit back on the table.• Ms. May requested from the E.U. a short delay to Britain’s exit, until June 30.• But the E.U. said it would only allow that if lawmakers endorsed her Brexit plan.• That seems unlikely, given that lawmakers have twice rejected it already.“European Union officials appeared to be trying to strengthen Mrs. May’s position and pressure British lawmakers to fall into line behind her plan, which would allow Britain to exit the bloc but maintain its trade ties until at least the end of 2020,” Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.“If they don’t, the alternative may be an outcome many of the lawmakers like even less than the prime minister’s plan: a break from the bloc with no provisions for cushioning its economic impact — a so-called no-deal Brexit — or an even lengthier delay. And that could potentially mean no withdrawal from the bloc at all.”More: The government has stepped up its planning for a no-deal Brexit — including readying the armed forces to deal with public disruption. And sovereign wealth funds have cut investment in Britain ahead of Brexit.One man is holding up the Pentagon’s cloud contractThe Pentagon still hasn’t awarded its $10 billion cloud computing contract, which is supposed to go to a single provider. Amazon, Microsoft, Google, IBM and Oracle are all technically still in the running. The delay stems from a legal fight between Amazon, the favorite, and Oracle, concerning a former entrepreneur called Deap Ubhi, Karen Weise and Thomas Kaplan of the NYT write.• Mr. Ubhi worked at Amazon from 2014 to 2016, and then joined a Pentagon initiative to help the military hire techies. He also worked on the cloud contract, known as JEDI. He has since returned to Amazon.• “In court documents, Oracle argues that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI when the Pentagon decided to take the approach of hiring a single cloud provider. Oracle cites internal documents in which Mr. Ubhi expressed support for a single cloud,” Ms. Weise and Mr. Kaplan write.• “Amazon has countered that the Pentagon identified 72 people substantially involved in developing the contract and its requirements, and that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI for only seven weeks, in the early stages.”• “The delays from the Oracle lawsuit could help Microsoft. In the months since the request for proposals went out, the company, which has supplied the Pentagon for decades, has improved its capabilities to the point that some experts believe it is an increasingly credible competitor to Amazon.”London’s insurance hub is criticized as a “meat market” for womenLloyd’s of London, the British insurance brokerage, is one of the oldest redoubts of capitalism in the world. But 18 women told Bloomberg Businessweek that they faced sexual assault and harassment there.• A ban on women on the Lloyd’s trading floor was lifted in 1973, but a macho, sexist culture remains. Women are still referred to as “totty” and are rated for their “shaggability,” according to financial executives.• One female executive in her mid-30s told Bloomberg Businessweek that she was assaulted by a male manager after a night drinking with colleagues. She said she was marginalized, especially after filing a complaint — while her manager remained in his job.• Inga Beale, the first female C.E.O. of Lloyd’s, tried to increase diversity at the firm — but was told to “tone it down.”• She tried to ban daytime drinking, a staple of the Lloyd’s culture, in 2017. Some workers “sneered that Beale was trying to run their life as if she was their mother.” The ban reportedly remains widely ignored.• Ms. Beale left before her fifth anniversary in the role last fall, and was replaced by John Neal — whose former employer had docked his pay “for not disclosing he was in a relationship with his personal assistant.”Revolving doorJeremy King is stepping down as Walmart’s chief technology officer.JPMorgan Chase is phasing out college recruiting trips in favor of video interviews and online behavioral-science games.The speed readDeals• Levi Strauss priced its I.P.O. at $17 a share, valuing it at about $6.6 billion. (WSJ)• Indonesia’s Lion Air is reportedly working on an I.P.O. (Reuters)• UBS said its investment banking business has had one of its worst starts to the year in recent history. (FT)• Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management is up 30 percent so far this year, rebounding from years of underperformance. (CNBC)• Starbucks has set up a venture fund with Valor Equity Partners to invest in food start-ups. (CNBC)Politics and policy• To assess Howard Schultz’s leadership, should you look at Starbucks — or his botched sale of the Seattle SuperSonics? (NYT)• President Trump said that Robert Mueller’s report should be made public. Here’s what we know about it so far. (NYT)• Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, sued a Twitter account that pretends to be one of his cows. It now has more followers than he does. (NYT)Boeing• A Senate commerce subcommittee will examine oversight of the Boeing 737 Max in the wake of two crashes. (Axios)• And the F.B.I. has joined the Department of Transportation’s criminal investigation into how the jet was certified. ()• The Defense Department’s inspector general is investigating complaints that the acting defense secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan, promoted his former employer, Boeing, and disparaged rival military contractors. (NYT)Tech• A subscription news service from Apple, expected to be announced Monday, is said to include the WSJ, but not the NYT or WaPo. (NYT)• And David Solomon of Goldman Sachs is reportedly planning to attend Apple’s event, suggesting that his bank will unveil a long-rumored personal-finance collaboration with the tech giant. (Bloomberg)• The Supreme Court took a pass on how class-action lawsuit settlements are distributed in a case involving Google, suggesting it may not be ready to help Congress go after Big Tech. (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Beto O’Rourke joined the Democratic voices calling to rein in Big Tech, saying that the companies should be treated “a little bit more like a utility.” (Business Insider)Best of the rest• New Zealand will ban the sale of military-style semiautomatic weapons, the kind used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week. (NYT)• Carlos Ghosn’s trial in Japan could start in the fall, sooner than previously expected. (WSJ)• Greece is enjoying an economic revival, thanks to Chinese and Russian investors. (NYT)• Jeff Ubben of ValueAct Capital Management criticized PG&E for again postponing a deadline for board nominations. (Bloomberg)• Business schools are starting to teach softer skills, too. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)TPG and Bill McGlashan clash over his exitA fight has broken out between TPG and Bill McGlashan, the senior executive caught up in a huge college bribery scandal, over how he left the $103 billion investment giant, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Mr. McGlashan had initially been put on leave by TPG after being accused of collaborating with William Singer, who ran the college preparatory business at the center of the scandal. Prosecutors say that Mr. Singer advised the financier to claim that his son had learning disabilities, and that Mr. McGlashan paid $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s charity.TPG said it fired him for cause yesterday. “We believe the behavior described to be inexcusable and antithetical to the values of our entire organization,” the firm said in a statement.TPG told employees and partners that it learned about the accusations against Mr. McGlashan only after prosecutors unsealed their case, according to an internal note reviewed by DealBook.But Mr. McGlashan said that he had already resigned. “I am deeply sorry this very difficult situation may interfere with the work to which I have devoted my life,” he wrote in a note.Emails between Mr. McGlashan and top TPG executives, provided by his spokesman, appear to confirm that. Mr. McGlashan emailed his resignation at 1:02 p.m. yesterday, according to the correspondence. At 2:03 p.m., Jon Winkelried, one of TPG’s co-C.E.O.s, replied, acknowledging receipt of the resignation — but he also included a notice of termination.At 2:20 p.m., Mr. McGlashan responded, “I am perplexed by your attempt to terminate me because, as you acknowledged in your email, you had already received my resignation.”It’s unclear what is at stake financially for Mr. McGlashan in terms of his TPG severance. In his email, Mr. Winkelried wrote to Mr. McGlashan, “We will be in touch to advise you of the economic consequences of the termination of your employment.”A spokesman for TPG declined to comment on the emails.More: The man who tipped off authorities to the college admissions scandal was reportedly a financier who was being investigated in a securities fraud case. And here’s a reminder why paying bribes to get your child into college is a federal crime.Facebook’s privacy push causes a staff shake-upLast week, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would pivot toward privacy. With two of the company’s top executives leaving just days later, it appears the change has had an immediate impact.The two executives — Chris Cox, Facebook’s chief product officer, who is widely regarded as the company’s No. 3, and Chris Daniels, the head of WhatsApp — announced yesterday that they were to leave the company. Their departure comes “after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, over the social network’s future direction,” according to Mike Isaac of the NYT.“The differences stemmed from Mr. Zuckerberg’s asserting control over his company and its apps — Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger — by rolling out a plan to integrate the services into a single privacy-focused platform, according to six people involved in the situation,” he adds.Several executives at Facebook feared that knitting together the apps could take a toll on the popularity and growth of their individual products, according to Mr. Isaac. They were also reportedly worried that they could lose autonomy and power. Traces of those sentiments could be seen in a public statement issued by Mr. Cox.“Facebook has become Zuckerberg’s company now more than ever,” Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. “Whether that’s good for the company or for the company’s billions of users — we’ll see.”Boeing’s problems continue to mountIn the wake of two fatal crashes within five months that involved its 737 Max airplanes, the company is reeling.Boeing will suspend delivery of its 737 Max jets, it announced yesterday, but continue to produce them. It currently builds 52 aircraft a month, many of which are Max models, and entirely shutting down production would prove costly.But the policy may only last so long. Boeing’s production facility in Renton, Wash., has only limited capacity for storing the airplanes, according to the WSJ. Boeing may, however, be able to apply for special permits to fly the planes to other storage sites, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, big questions hang over the Max’s software. Pilots from Southwest Airlines and American Airlines requested software updates for some of the 737 Max’s automated systems last year, reports the NYT. They were promised updates within six weeks, one pilot said, but they have still not arrived. Similarities between the two recent crashes point to potential problems with the automated system that requires the update.And the U.S. Air Force has also lost trust in Boeing. In a case unrelated to the Max debacle, Air Force officials said that quality control issues with a new aerial refueling tanker caused it to suspend deliveries in February.Britain’s Parliament votes to delay BrexitBritish lawmakers yesterday voted to postpone the country’s departure from the E.U., but narrowly failed to wrest control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May’s government, write Ellen Barry and Stephen Castle of the NYT.“Mrs. May fended off — by just two votes — a remarkable power grab by lawmakers frustrated at months of political deadlock that has left the country in limbo with just 15 days to go before its scheduled departure from the bloc. They later voted by 412 to 202 for a motion that means that Britain will almost certainly not leave the E.U. as scheduled on March 29.”“What remains unclear now is how long the delay will be. Mrs. May plans to hold a third vote on her unpopular plan for withdrawal, despite have suffered two staggering defeats on it already. If the prime minister should succeed in a third attempt, she would then request a short delay — no more than three months — from E.U. leaders.”“But the motion noted that should her plan go down to defeat once again, Mrs. May might have to ask European leaders for a much longer delay, with unknown consequences.”More: Brexit’s importance to the global economy may have been overstated.Fear and doubt at a top deal-makers’ partyTulane’s Corporate Law Institute, a conference held every spring in New Orleans, is where the mergers-and-acquisitions world gathers to talk shop. Usually, it’s about how good business is — but a sense of unease has intruded this year’s festivities, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Bankers and lawyers should be celebrating. Last year’s $4.2 trillion in global announced deals was the third-best year ever, according to Citigroup. Nearly every industry enjoyed a rise in deal-making.And M. & A. should keep rolling on. Mark Shafir, the co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, and others at the conference noted that takeover financing remains cheap, shareholders seem to support sensible deals and shareholder activists are continuing to push companies into transactions.But “there is no doubt that we are in a much less bullish environment for M. & A. than a year ago,” Mr. Shafir said. Among the pressures on deal-making:• There are fears about a potential recession, the ongoing trade wars and the persistent worry that the stock market will suffer like it did late last year.• Regulators are a big issue too, especially the concern that they could be used as political cudgels. One of the big topics at the conference was the growing importance of overseers like Cfius, the American government panel that reviews cross-border deals for national security concerns.• And then there’s the natural cycle of deal-making. Booms tend to be followed by big drops in volumes, and this cycle has gone on longer than most, Mr. Shafir said.Sandy Hook families can sue RemingtonThe Connecticut Supreme Court cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, Rick Rojas and Kristin Hussey of the NYT report.The ruling allows a case, brought by victims’ families, to go around the immunity that Congress granted gun companies to shield them from litigation when their weapons are used in a crime. That leaves open the potential for Remington, which made the rifle used in the attack, to be held liable.Lawyers for the families argued that advertising campaigns for guns appeared to be “courting” troubled young men, like Adam Lanza, who carried out the Sandy Hook shooting. In a 4-3 ruling, justices “found that the sweeping federal protections did not prevent the families from bringing a lawsuit based on wrongful marketing claims,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey write.“The decision represents a significant development in the long-running battle between gun control advocates and the gun lobby,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey add. And it could chart a “possible legal road map for victims’ relatives and survivors from other mass shootings.”Trump says trade news is three or four weeks offPresident Trump appears to have reeled in his claim on Wednesday of being “not in a rush whatsoever” to reach a trade deal with China.“We’ll have news on China. Probably one way or the other, we’re going to know over the next three to four weeks,” Mr. Trump told reporters yesterday, according to CNBC. He added that China had been “very responsible and very reasonable.”Such optimism may have been helped along by the news that China made “last-minute changes to a proposed foreign-investment law,” in an attempt to “address U.S. complaints about forced technology transfer,” according to the WSJ. Intellectual property concerns have been a major part of the trade dispute between America and China.But a final agreement is still some way off.  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said yesterday that a proposed meeting between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China won’t happen this month because there is still more work to do. Sources tell Bloomberg it could happen in April.Say hello to Tesla’s new car, the Model YElon Musk last night unveiled a new seven-seat compact sport-utility vehicle called the Model Y, Neal E. Boudette and Raymond Zhong of the NYT write:• “The Model Y will be available beginning next year, the company said, at prices ranging from $39,000 to $60,000, depending on the model, with a $2,500 deposit.”• “A long-range version will be able to drive 300 miles on a single charge, it said, while the $60,000 Performance model will have a top speed of 150 miles per hour.”• “‘It has the functionality of an S.U.V., but it will ride like a sports car,’ Mr. Musk said. ‘This thing will be really tight in corners.’”The unveiling “comes as Tesla confronts sales challenges,” Mr. Boudette and Mr. Zhong write. Sales of the Model S and Model X have been flattening, and its push to sell the Model 3 for $35,000 remains shrouded in uncertainty as the company works out how to cut costs to make that pricing possible.Revolving doorAndrew Weissmann, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies, is said to be leaving the special counsel’s office.Lee Fixel, a partner at Tiger Global Management, is leaving the hedge fund in June.The meat-substitute start-up Impossible Foods hired Dennis Woodside, who was Dropbox’s C.O.O., as its president.Tesla named Vaibhav Taneja as its new chief accounting officer.Goldman Sachs plans to cut 65 jobs because of “economic” factors.The speed readDeals• Uber reportedly plans to publicly disclose its I.P.O. prospectus in April. (Reuters)• A federal judge has ordered a hearing on April 5 to consider the government’s settlement allowing CVS’s takeover of Aetna to proceed. (Reuters)• Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase said that European banks need to merge with cross-border rivals to compete globally. (Bloomberg)• SmileDirectClub, which sells at-home teeth-straightening kits, has reportedly picked JPMorgan to lead its I.P.O. this year. (Axios)Politics and policy• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. Trump’s response was “VETO!” — which would be the first of his presidency. (NYT, @realDonaldTrump)• The House voted 420 to 0 to demand that Robert Mueller’s forthcoming report be released publicly. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, blocked a similar motion in the Senate. (NYT)• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he “can’t speculate” on how the White House will respond to Democratic requests for President Trump’s tax returns. (Politico)Tech• Spotify’s C.E.O. warned that the streaming service would need to raise prices if Apple continues to take a 30 percent fee from companies who use its App Store. Apple said that its policies were fair and that Spotify was trying to bolster its financial results. (FT, NYT)• Facebook blamed a “server configuration change” for disruption to its services this week — a stark reminder that even powerful internet companies can still be crippled by human error. (NYT)• The E.U.’s competition commissioner is reportedly set to issue Google with another antitrust fine relating to its AdSense business next week. (FT)• Huawei’s C.F.O. wanted to quit her job just before she was arrested in Canada, according to the company’s founder. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Shares in G.E. jumped 2.8 percent on Thursday despite its warning of falling profits and a description of 2019 as a “reset” year. (WSJ)• Economists have lowered their forecasts for U.S. employment and economic growth in the first quarter. (WSJ)• China’s slowdown is spreading from factories to offices, and its second-highest official has promised corporate tax cuts and deregulation to ease the problem. (NYT)• The S.E.C. accused Volkswagen of undertaking a “massive fraud” over its diesel emissions scandal. (NYT)• How TV shows like “Succession” and “Billions” depict the lifestyle of the 1 percent. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.The bond market smells a recession. On Friday, stock investors caught a whiff, too.Economic forecasters and Wall Street traders have been watching for months as interest rates on long-term United States government bonds have dropped toward the rates on short-term debt.Investors normally demand higher yields to buy longer-term bonds, and when those long-term yields decline it can signal a slowdown in economic growth. On rare occasions, long-term yields can actually fall below yields on short-term bonds — a “yield curve inversion” in the parlance of the markets. Such unusual occurrences have preceded every recession over the last 60 years.And it happened on Friday. The inversion followed a sharp decline on yields on long-term Treasury bonds this week after the Federal Reserve decided on Wednesday to leave interest rates unchanged and signaled that it was unlikely to raise rates through the end of 2019. But a round of dour economic data from Europe actually pushed the measure into inverted territory. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled to 2.44 percent Friday, its lowest level since January 2018. That was just below the 2.45 percent yield on three-month Treasury bills. There are many different ways to measure the yield curve. On Wall Street, many analysts look at the difference between yields on two-year and 10-year Treasury notes, which has not yet inverted. But research from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has cited the yield difference between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year Treasury notes — which inverted Friday — as the most reliable predictor of recession risk. Traders in the stock market picked up on the downbeat signal. The S&P 500 had been climbing despite a recent drop in bond yields, effectively shrugging off the decline as further evidence that the Fed would keep rates low for the foreseeable future. Keeping rates low has been a good thing for stocks over the past 10 years. But on Friday, the S&P 500 fell 1.9 percent, as stock market investors grew concerned about the outlook for economic growth. It was the second-worst drop for the market this year. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.5 percent. Experts on interpreting the predictive power of the yield curve cautioned that a single day of an inverted yield curve doesn’t necessarily mean the economy will tumble into recession. Campbell Harvey, a Duke University finance professor whose research first showed the predictive power of the yield curve in the mid-1980s, stressed that an inversion must last, on average, three months before it can credibly be said to be sending a clear signal. If that does occur, history shows that the economy will fall into a recession over the next nine to 18 months. But even with the yield curve’s track record for predicting recessions, Professor Harvey emphasized that there was no such thing as certainty in economic forecasting. “A model is just a model,” he said. “It’s not an oracle. It helps us forecast the future, but it might at any point fail.”SAN FRANCISCO — Owning a piece of the gig economy became a reality for millions on Friday when Lyft began trading on the public markets, signaling the start of a stream of stock offerings expected from high-profile technology companies this year.Lyft’s shares rose 8.7 percent in its first day of trading after opening at $87.24, far above the public offering price of $72. By the end of the day, the ride-hailing firm’s market value stood at $26.4 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade. At that level, it was more than 23 times the valuation of the parent company of Hertz, the rental car provider, and bigger than the parent of United Airlines.Lyft’s public market debut formalized the rise of the sharing economy, even though persistent questions remain about the effect of gig-type work on people’s quality of life and their wages. When ride-hailing companies like Lyft and Uber began growing this decade, they hawked their kind of work — where drivers are freelancers who drive only when they want to — as providing flexibility. But with drivers ineligible to receive employee benefits like health care, the businesses have since prompted lawsuits and labor protests.Gig economy companies also have not proved a business fundamental: that they can make money. While Lyft and Uber have been expanding rapidly, they have lost close to or more than $1 billion a year. And the companies are spending heavily on new initiatives like food delivery, electric bikes and self-driving vehicles, making profits a distant prospect.[Unicorns are riding into the public markets, and their elite early investors will be the biggest winners.]Even so, Lyft’s offering means that people will now own shares of the company in their mutual funds and stock portfolios, giving them more of a vested interest in the financial outcomes of gig economy firms. That will be compounded when Uber, the world’s biggest ride-hailing operator, goes public in the next few months in what is expected to be the largest initial public offering of the past five years. Uber will almost certainly become part of index funds, which underlie the retirement portfolios of millions of Americans.“Their business model is completely reliant on an unsettled issue, which is the status of their drivers,” Veena Dubal, an employment and labor law professor at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law, said of ride-hailing companies. “They’ve been trying to shift risk onto workers, and now they are shifting risk onto investors as well.”Those risks sent jitters through some investors on Friday, with Lyft’s shares falling after opening up strongly. The stock dipped to roughly $80 before declining further near the end of trading to finish the day at $78.29.But others turned a blind eye to the steep losses and heavy spending, which bodes well for the herd of other coming tech offerings. Apart from Uber, those set to join the I.P.O. bonanza are Pinterest, the digital pin board; the messaging company Slack; the delivery company Postmates; and the home-fitness company Peloton.Interest in buying Lyft’s stock was so high that demand outstripped supply within the first two days of the company’s road show to pitch prospective investors this month. By the end, the I.P.O. was 20 times oversubscribed, Lyft told investors on Friday.Lyft’s high listing price and performance are a “reflection of the appetite” from investors, said Tom White, a senior vice president at D. A. Davidson, a wealth and asset management firm. “Right now, I think investors generally are focused on growth.”With its initial offering, Lyft leapt ahead of Uber to become the first publicly traded ride-hailing firm. Logan Green and John Zimmer, Lyft’s founders, celebrated the event on Friday in Los Angeles, where pink confetti rained down them as they marked the occasion. The pair had founded Zimride, a long-distance car-pooling service for college students, in 2007. Zimride evolved into Lyft, which initially used the gimmick of fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches to distinguish its service.Mr. Green, 35, who grew up in Santa Monica, and has cited heavy traffic in the area as an inspiration for Lyft, and Mr. Zimmer, 34, used the I.P.O. to announce a program called Lyft City Works. The program will donate $50 million to transportation initiatives in cities where it operates.Mr. Green said he planned to further expand Lyft into other modes of transportation, including public transit.“We want Lyft to be the first app that you open up,” he said. “The biggest investments we’re making today are broadening the portfolio of products that you can access within Lyft.”The offering increased Mr. Green’s and Mr. Zimmer’s wealth, while allowing them to maintain tight control over their company. The pair hold a special class of shares that give them extra voting power, a practice common among tech founders but criticized by investor advocates.During the nearly two-week road show, Lyft pitched itself to institutional investors as a mission-driven company focused on reshaping the transportation industry. It emphasized its do-gooder stance on encouraging car-pooling and reducing the environmental impacts of individual car ownership.Investors’ most frequent question during the road show was what the company would look like in five years, Mr. Zimmer said. “Investors realized that ride-sharing is the tip of the iceberg,” he said.Using independent contractors to provide services has indubitably become the keystone of a generation of tech companies, from ride-hailing apps to food delivery services like DoorDash to hair and makeup services like Glamsquad. Some researchers said contingent work could account for 43 percent of the American work force by next year, though the Department of Labor has reported that the number of workers in gig roles has remained mostly flat since 2005.“I think it’s quite clear that this is part of a larger trend in the economy,” said Sean Aggarwal, Lyft’s chairman. “That makes it an exciting story for the long-term investor. It gives them an opportunity to participate not just in this gig economy transformation but also in this larger trend of transportation as a service.”Mr. White of D. A. Davidson said the good will toward Lyft would eventually evaporate if it ultimately couldn’t make money.“As we get closer to 2020, there will be an expectation that we see them narrow the losses,” he said.Global markets mainly fell on Monday, setting the stage for a lower opening on Wall Street as investors digested a spate of bad news from the United States and Europe.Japan led the decline, though stocks fell broadly across Asia. The downturn carried over into European markets, but some indexes shed their losses through the day. Futures that allow investors to bet on the direction of the American stock market suggested that Wall Street would fall when trading started.Chinese officials over the weekend signaled their eagerness to strike a deal with the Trump administration to bring the trade war between the two countries to an end — the sort of thing that has sometimes cheered markets in the past. But investors on Monday were still grappling with a signal from the United States on Friday that the world’s biggest economy faces the threat of falling into recession.In Japan, the Nikkei 225 stock index finished 3 percent lower on Monday, in the region’s biggest drop. Elsewhere, the Shanghai Composite index and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng both closed about 2 percent lower.European markets, which fell on Friday after some dour economic news, lost ground in early trading on Monday but then moderated. By early afternoon London’s FTSE 100 was about 0.6 percent lower, while the CAC 40 in Paris and the DAX index in Frankfurt were about 0.2 percent lower.In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 index finished down 1.1 percent. South Korea’s stock market, as based on the Kospi stock index, fell 1.9 percent.President Trump and his top economic adviser criticized the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate increases again on Friday, blaming the central bank for hindering economic growth while denying any suggestion of a looming slowdown.Just one day after the Commerce Department said the economy slowed more sharply at the end of last year than previously reported, Mr. Trump blamed the Fed for “mistakenly” raising rates last year.“Had the Fed not mistakenly raised interest rates, especially since there is very little inflation, and had they not done the ridiculously timed quantitative tightening,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Friday, “the 3.0% GDP, & Stock Market, would have both been much higher & World Markets would be in a better place!”Larry Kudlow, the director of the White House’s National Economic Council, told CNBC on Friday that Mr. Trump would like to see the Fed cut rates by half a percentage point.“This is our view. This is his view. This is my view,” Mr. Kudlow said.Mr. Trump has made no secret of his disdain for the Fed’s recent interest rate increases and its effort to slim down its massive portfolio of government-backed securities. Mr. Trump has blamed the Fed  for slowing economic growth and has criticized his handpicked Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell. After the Fed raised rates in December, Mr. Trump complained to aides that Mr. Powell was going to “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the man who was president in the early years of the Great Depression.After raising rates for five consecutive quarters, the Fed abruptly changed course this year and said earlier this month that it foresees no additional increases in 2019. Mr. Powell said last week that the Fed would leave interest rates unchanged, as signs of economic weakness in the United States and abroad warrant a more “patient” approach.He also said that the Fed planned to stop winnowing its portfolio of government bonds, which it amassed in the wake of the financial crisis as it tried to prop up the economy. The Fed will end its efforts to shrink that portfolio, known as quantitative tightening, later this year.The Fed, along with many outside economists, sees economic growth slowing in 2019 as the effects of Mr. Trump’s tax cuts fade and as his trade war and weaker growth in Europe and in China contribute to a slowdown. Mr. Powell told reporters earlier this month that, depending on how economic data played out, the Fed’s next move could just as easily be a rate cut as a rate increase.On Thursday, the Commerce Department revised its growth estimates for 2018, saying the economy — as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 — stands at 3.0 percent, down a bit from the initially reported 3.1 percent. That is still enough to allow Mr. Trump to claim to have achieved the first year of 3 percent growth since 2005.Mr. Trump has insisted that economic growth will continue at a rapid clip, but he has also begun to blame the Fed for any slowdown that might occur.In an interview with Fox Business Network last Friday, Mr. Trump said that the economy would have grown by at least 4 percent “if we didn’t have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening.”Mr. Kudlow has struck a slightly less pugilistic tone. In an interview with CNBC, Mr. Kudlow said that the economy “fundamentally” looks “quite healthy,” adding that he and Mr. Trump understand that the Fed operates independently.Mr. Kudlow said Mr. Trump had “redesigned, redeveloped and re-engineered” the economy and suggested the Fed was getting in the way of allowing the president’s efforts to take root.“There’s no emergency, just a point of view,” Mr. Kudlow said. “We don’t want to threaten this great recovery.”While Mr. Powell already seems to be following the trajectory Mr. Trump wants, the president said last week that he plans to nominate Stephen Moore to an open seat on the Fed. Mr. Moore, a former campaign adviser to Mr. Trump and a conservative economist, has been pushing for the Fed to cut interest rates, saying their recent increases went too far. The White House has yet to formally nominate Mr. Moore for the Fed seat.ISTANBUL — Turkey’s banking regulator has announced that it will begin an inquiry into JPMorgan Chase for providing “misleading and manipulative” investment advice that, it said, prompted a run on the Turkish lira last week.The Banking Regulation and Supervision Board issued a statement saying it had received a large number of complaints about a JPMorgan research report to clients on Friday that “caused volatility in the financial markets and loss of reputation and value especially for the banks of our country.”The lira, which has been slipping in value over the last year, slumped more than 5 percent on Friday, dropping in value to 5.7 to the United States dollar from 5.4, while Turkey’s main stock exchange fell 3.45 percent.The board said its investigation would also look into activities of other banks, but it did not name them.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has frequently accused foreign powers of orchestrating the currency crisis, and at a huge campaign rally in Istanbul on Sunday, he accused unnamed actors in the financial sector of trying to provoke a run on the lira.“We all know who you are, we all know what you are all doing,” he said. “You should know that after the elections, we will make you to pay a heavy price. You would not be able to exploit this nation. You would not be able to cheat this nation.”Economists, though, say a loss of confidence in the management of the economy and rule of law in Turkey is behind the weakening of the lira.It is unclear how the inquiry will progress or what penalties could be imposed, but the board said it would undertake “necessary administrative and legal proceedings.” In a related announcement, the Capital Markets Board of Turkey said it was conducting its own investigation into JPMorgan over the same report.JPMorgan analysts warned in the report that the Turkish lira might depreciate soon after local elections scheduled for Sunday. A spokesman for JPMorgan declined to comment.In a sign of its concern at the renewed volatility in financial markets, Turkey’s Central Bank announced on Friday that it would suspend one-week repo auctions — closing the spigot on one source of cash for banks — for a period of time, which analysts called an unusual move.Turkey has experienced severe economic pressures over the last year, and government figures released this month showed that the country had entered a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth. The lira lost 28 percent of its value last year as foreign investment stalled amid soaring private sector debt.Mr. Erdogan, who has assumed increased powers since winning re-election last summer, announced that he would take on greater responsibility for the economy and even decisions at the Central Bank. He appointed Berat Albayrak, his son-in-law, minister of finance and Treasury.Mr. Albayrak said in a television interview on Friday that Turkey had already resolved its most pressing vulnerabilities: inflation and budget discipline. “A healthy environment that would provide security for international markets has settled in Turkey,” he said, promising a period of reform over the rest of Mr. Erdogan’s five-year term. “Our way is open. We are very comfortable.”Even as inflation and unemployment figures have risen sharply, Mr. Erdogan has been undeterred, personally leading two or three rallies around the country a day for his Justice and Development Party. The election campaign has been especially nasty, with mudslinging and lawsuits leveled at candidates as polls show a close race in some of the most important cities, including the capital, Ankara.At the campaign rally on Sunday, Mr. Erdogan vowed to fight outside influences trying to weaken the economy.“Beware, folks, do not take their words for it,” he said. “We will protect our money. Our money is the Turkish lira. We will protect it. We will not rise to the bait. And we will make them pay the price.”The latest generation of Silicon Valley start-ups is now sprinting to the public markets, raising hopes among large and small investors eager to invest in these high-profile, fast-growing firms. But the class of 2019 is far different from its predecessors. These companies, including gig economy darlings like Uber and Lyft, are generally older and larger, powered for years by billions of dollars of private money that has reshaped the start-up world.The additional maturity of the companies may curb wild swings — both big gains and big losses — for new investors. But it could also mean that the companies’ fastest phases of growth are behind them. As a result, there is an increased risk that in this wave of tech I.P.O.s, an elite group of investors, like sovereign wealth funds and venture capitalists, will grab a larger share of the winnings compared with new investors.“Individual investors are going to get in too late,” said Jason DeSena Trennert, managing partner at Strategas Research Partners, a markets and economic analysis firm. “They’re going to be the last investors in, and that’s the concern.”[Lyft’s shares soared on Friday when it began trading on public markets.]The change reflects a large-scale shift in the way that American entrepreneurs raise money to build their companies. Instead of quickly turning to the public markets and the scrutiny that comes with that, as Amazon and Google did, they are building huge businesses over the course of many years on the back of private money, and with fewer demands for financial disclosures.Uber, the giant ride-hailing company, has raised more than $20 billion over the last decade. Lyft, its smaller rival, which priced its I.P.O. late Thursday at $72 a share and is expected to start trading on the Nasdaq Friday, raised $4.9 billion over seven years.Many start-ups in earlier waves — back to the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, when Amazon was listed on the Nasdaq — went public just a few years after their founding. Some, like Pets.com, had tiny amounts of revenue, and now exist only in Silicon Valley lore. A combination of policy changes and vast new riches in the tech industry has been changing the equation for start-ups for more than a decade. Mutual funds and hedge funds — the typical investors in a start-up’s I.P.O. — began buying stakes in large private companies as a way to build up larger stakes before the new businesses went public. Other big investors joined in, including large sovereign wealth funds and the outsize SoftBank Vision Fund, creating an even hotter market. Venture capital investments into United States-based companies grew to $99.5 billion in 2018, the highest level since 2000, according to CB Insights, a company that tracks start-ups.Those investments have driven valuations of start-ups to unusual heights. There are now at least 333 so-called unicorns, companies valued at $1 billion or more, according to CB Insights. In 2014 there were around 80.Lyft has a private valuation of more than $11 billion. So does Pinterest, another company in the process of going public. That is roughly the market value that public investors put on the retailer Kohl’s and the online trading firm E-Trade Financial. Uber, the largest of the private companies expected to head for the stock market this year, has a private-market valuation of more than $70 billion. In public markets, that’s roughly the same size as corporate giants such as Goldman Sachs and CVS Health. Matt Murphy, a partner at Menlo Ventures, a leading venture capital firm, said the higher valuations and larger investments correlate with bigger opportunities created by smartphones and cloud computing. “The magnitude of the audiences that can be reached and the monetization per user has grown,” he said. “Their growth potential is much higher than was previously anticipated.”Some industry groups and investors who urge fewer regulations say the emphasis on the private markets is an outgrowth of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the federal law passed in 2002 that tightened accounting rules for public companies after the accounting scandals of the early 2000s. Besides raising disclosure requirements and other changes, the law required top executives to attest to the accuracy of corporate financial statements. Some say those higher costs to guarantee compliance can dissuade smaller companies from going public. Private companies, by comparison, can operate with far less disclosure. They are under no obligation to file quarterly earnings updates or audited annual financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nor are they required to broadly distribute updates on business developments to the public. Others say the decline in public offerings began before Sarbanes-Oxley passed. They attribute the change to a wave of federal deregulation, which made it easier to raise money and sell companies privately. Lighter antitrust enforcement set off a boom in mergers and acquisitions, allowing smaller firms to sell to bigger companies instead of going public. At the same time, new laws made it easier for private companies to sell securities to qualified investors around the country, bolstering funding from private equity and venture capital.Whatever the driver, the net result has been a clear downturn in the number of public companies in the United States. The number of listed companies has declined by 52 percent since 1997, to a bit more than 3,600 in 2016, according to a working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research published last year. This long-term shrinkage in publicly available shares is a reason that some analysts expect Uber, Lyft and other prominent start-ups to receive a warm response from the institutional investors who typically buy freshly issued shares, even if the potential upside could be smaller. “There’s an element, I think, of pent-up demand here,” said David Ethridge, who advises on public offerings at the consulting firm PwC. “I think people will have a feeling of, I don’t really want to miss out.”Investors have some reason to be skeptical of paying top dollar for newly minted public companies, however. Over the last two years, the value of companies that completed public offerings actually fell by an average of 8 percent, according to a recent research report from Goldman Sachs analysts. Over the same period, the S&P 500 stock index was up about 12 percent. WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Friday that he had offered a position on the Federal Reserve’s Board of Governors to Stephen Moore, a conservative economic adviser who has become an outspoken critic of the Fed’s interest rate policy.Mr. Moore has blamed the Fed’s rate increases over the past year for slowing economic growth and recently began calling on the central bank to begin cutting rates. An economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation, Mr. Moore helped draft Mr. Trump’s tax proposals in the 2016 campaign and has served as an informal adviser ever since.As a nominee, Mr. Moore, 59, would face intense criticism in the Senate from Democrats, with whom he has clashed on several economic issues in his career as a commentator and policy advocate.“I will be nominating Mr. Moore for the Fed,” Mr. Trump told reporters after landing in Palm Beach, Fla. “He’s going to be great on the Fed.”The president added in a post on Twitter that Mr. Moore “will be an outstanding choice!”The move seeks to elevate a Trump loyalist to the Fed, an institution that the president has repeatedly blasted for raising interest rates, which he says have been a drag on the economy. Mr. Trump has repeatedly criticized his handpicked Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, saying he does not agree with Mr. Powell’s approach.In recent public writings and private meetings with Mr. Trump, Mr. Moore has pushed for the Fed to reverse at least two of the four interest rate increases that it approved last year. Mr. Moore blames those increases for a drop in commodity prices at the end of last year. He recently pushed the Fed to target commodity prices in setting interest rates, a view rarely advocated by economists and monetary policymakers.“The Fed is sucking the oxygen out of the economy and has created an economically debilitating deflation,” Mr. Moore said in an email this month. “Deflation shrinks the economy. The Fed should reverse its disastrous rate hikes” of September and December.“The one guy who gets this is Trump,” Mr. Moore added. “He told me in a meeting last month that the Fed is preventing us from staying on 3 to 4 percent growth path."On Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal published an opinion piece in which Mr. Moore called the Fed the “last major obstacle” to a sustained economic boom.“The deflation began with quarter-point interest-rate increases in September and December,” Mr. Moore and a co-author wrote. “These hikes caused a severe dollar shortage, a fall in commodity prices and a rapid slowing of growth — accompanied by wild swings in the stock market.”In an interview that the Fox Business Network aired Friday morning, Mr. Trump appeared to echo much of Mr. Moore’s thinking, saying economic growth would have been higher last year if not for the Fed’s rate increases and its effort to slim down its holdings of government-backed securities, which some call “quantitative tightening.”Mr. Trump has repeatedly criticized the choices being made by Mr. Powell. “Frankly, if we didn’t have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening, we would have been at over 4 instead of a 3.1” percent growth, the president said.Asked if he had influenced Fed policy with his criticism, Mr. Trump said: “I don’t know. I mean, look, I hope I didn’t influence, frankly, but it doesn’t matter. I don’t care if I influenced or not.“One thing, I was right,” he continued. “But we would have been over 4 if they didn’t do all of the interest rate hikes. And they tightened, I mean, they did $50 billion a month. I said, ‘What are we doing here?’ And so I’m not — 3.1 may be the best in 14 years; I’m not happy with it. We should have had much higher.”The Fed had been on a steady campaign to raise rates and ushered in five consecutive quarters of increases in 2017 and 2018. The Fed has since paused and adopted a more “patient” approach amid signs of economic weakness both in the United States and abroad. On Wednesday, it signaled that it foresaw no interest rate increases in 2019, a departure from December, when it forecast two rate increases this year.After that December rate hike, Mr. Moore said Mr. Powell should resign as Fed chair, calling the increase “one of the most remarkable Abbott and Costello routines in modern times.”In an interview with Bloomberg TV on Friday, Mr. Moore said those comments were made “in a time of anger” but said “everyone would now acknowledge that what they did in December with the rate increase was a substantial mistake.”Mr. Moore added that he was not going to the Fed to be a “destructor” and that he looked forward to working with Mr. Powell, whom he has not yet met. Mr. Moore also demurred when asked about the size of the Fed’s balance sheet, saying he wanted to “study up” on the issue. In 2014, Mr. Moore co-wrote a research paper that called for the Fed to reduce its balance sheet by selling off securities through 2020.“Over time, obviously, we want to reduce that balance sheet,” he said in the interview.Mr. Moore would be Mr. Trump’s seventh Fed nominee. Aside from Mr. Powell, the Senate approved Mr. Trump’s nominations of Richard H. Clarida and Randal K. Quarles, both vice chairs, and Michelle W. Bowman. Two other nominees, Nellie Liang and Marvin Goodfriend, were opposed by some Senate Republicans, and Ms. Liang pulled her name from consideration. Mr. Goodfriend’s nomination lapsed in the last Congress.Mr. Moore, who has a master’s degree in economics, was the founder of the conservative Club for Growth and a past member of The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board. His interest rate views have changed in recent years.In 2015, when growth was slower and unemployment higher than it is now, he wrote a column criticizing the Fed for amassing $4.5 trillion worth of government backed bonds and for refusing to raise rates, and warned that the Fed chairwoman at the time, Janet L. Yellen, was setting the stage for another financial crisis.“The Fed refused to raise interest rates off zero in September, and, hello, that easy money policy is how we got into the mess in 2000 and then in 2008,” he wrote. “Wall Street cheered Janet Yellen’s decision to keep the cheap dollars flowing. Isn’t this all starting to sound familiar?”Many Fed watchers criticized Mr. Trump’s selection of Mr. Moore, even those who have called for keeping interest rates low to help workers and spur growth.“Stephen Moore is a particularly poor choice for the Federal Reserve Board,” said Tim Duy, an economics professor and a Fed expert at the University of Oregon. “He appears more devoted to pursuing a far-right economic agenda than willing to understand the complexity of economic policy.”In the past, Mr. Moore expressed qualified support for a return to the gold standard, which pegs the value of the dollar to gold prices, a practice the United States abandoned in 1971. In an interview in 2015, he agreed with his friend Steve Forbes that a return to such a standard would be “a lot better than what we have now.”Mr. Moore said he would prefer to peg monetary policy to a basket of commodity prices, which he said would have a similar constraining effect as the gold standard on policymakers.“I do think that some rule needs to be put in place,” he said, “so that people like Janet Yellen and these other central bankers aren’t making up these rules as they go along.”HONG KONG — Something strange happened recently in the Hong Kong property market.On New Year’s Eve, a buyer put down a five percent deposit for the purchase of a three-story, $92.5 million luxury house perched high up on the hills of Hong Kong Island.With a garden and a pool, the house offers sweeping views of the city below and the harbor beyond.A month later, the buyer backed out of the purchase, losing the $4.6 million deposit.It is unclear what caused the whopping default. The unidentified buyer may have had financing problems. Or the buyer might have decided it was a bad bet.But a default of this scale is “very, very rare,” said Nicole Wong, the regional head of property research at CLSA, an investment and brokerage group.It could also speak to a wider sense of unease about the city’s property market. While forfeitures of deposits are still relatively uncommon, a spate in recent months by potential home buyers appears to signal waning confidence in the market.After years of steep price increases, affirming Hong Kong’s position as the city with the world’s most unaffordable property — a distinction it has held for nine straight years — the housing market entered a monthslong period of decline starting last summer.“In general, from last midyear to now, the atmosphere in the housing property market has not been good,” said Keng Shing Koh, founder and chief executive of Landscope Christie’s, a real estate agency in Hong Kong.Prices in the residential mass market have slumped, mortgage applications have plummeted and the number of transactions has plunged, reaching the lowest since 2005 in September. From July to December 2018, home prices fell almost 10 percent, according to data from the city’s Rating and Valuation Department. And in the steepest month-on-month decline since the global financial crisis of 2008, the property price index fell 3.5 percent last November.After a 28-month streak of price increases — the longest in the city’s history — it seemed things were finally starting to cool off.Behind this trend, experts say, are a number of factors. While Hong Kong’s economy continues to hum along, property prices were hurt by a series of events over the past few months: growing trade tensions between China and the United States, the interest rate increase in the United States, a cooling economy in China that has caused a drop in the value of the nation’s currency and the volatility of the Hang Seng index.But some analysts already see signs of a turnaround.Ms. Wong, of CLSA, said she was bullish about the market. She pointed out that the Federal Reserve announced in January that it would halt interest rate increases, China’s central bank had taken action to stabilize the renminbi and Hong Kong’s stocks were coming back. Ms. Wong said she expected home prices to start rising again.Already, the number of property viewings in late January and early February rose, during what is typically a quiet period before the Chinese New Year holiday.The number of transactions made above bank valuations has also returned to the two-year average after a monthslong slump, she said.“The latest prices have actually stabilized and are coming up from the bottom,” said Ms. Wong, adding that she expected property prices to increase by 15 percent.A substantial uptick in demand may also come from a large pool of Chinese mainlanders who have lived in the city for seven years and will qualify for Hong Kong permanent residency this year, which will exempt them from the extra taxes levied on nonresident property buyers, Ms. Wong said.Whether Hong Kong’s property market slumps further, as some industry watchers fear, or regains steam and continues its march upward, one underlying fact will in all likelihood remain unchanged: Homes in this city are wildly unaffordable for the overwhelming majority of residents.‘‘The Hamptons of Hong Kong’’Nowhere are Hong Kong’s sky-high property prices on fuller display than at the Peak, the high-end residential neighborhood of the superwealthy where the potential buyer abandoned the $4.6 million deposit.Back in Hong Kong’s colonial days, laws were put in place to make sure that only Europeans were allowed to own property on the Peak. Those laws are long gone, and today anyone who can afford to do so can live there. It’s just that very few people can.“For the average person, your income per annum may buy the bathroom,” said Beverly Sunn, the founder and president of Asia Pacific Properties, a Hong Kong real estate company. One house last year sold for $114.9 million, or $20,400 per square foot, while another sold for $178.5 million, or $19,400 per square foot.“It’s the Hamptons of Hong Kong,” said Ms. Sunn, who has kept a close watch on the neighborhood’s real estate market and has seen it change over the years.Whereas much of the property around the Peak in the past few decades was held by large British companies, multinationals and wealthy non-Chinese locals, the past 10 years have seen an influx of money from Chinese investors.“You’ve seen just a tremendous amount of Chinese companies, and individuals, and heads of these companies, purchasing into this premier real estate area,” Ms. Sunn said.Original houses disappearingAs property prices on the Peak have risen along with the rest of the city’s real estate market, homeowners have increasingly turned to redeveloping their lots into complexes — mostly low-rise apartment buildings, but also smaller townhouses — that can generate huge profits. That has often meant knocking down houses that date to the 19th century.“I don’t think there are many houses on the Peak that remain in the same form as when they were first built,” said Ho Puay-peng, a professor of architecture at the National University of Singapore. “They’ve been demolished and redeveloped. Very few original houses remain on the Peak.”House 16, the $92 million property that was suddenly left without a buyer this year, is part of a new, super-luxurious development named Mount Nicholson, built on a plot of land that the government sold to a property developer in 2010 for $1.3 billion. The development, tucked away at the top of a quiet road, features 19 detached houses and 48 apartments, and the first properties hit the market in 2015.House 16’s price tag is nothing compared with the sale of a stand-alone pink house with a lawn and a pool on 5 Pollock Path, a cul-de-sac that a few years ago was named the most expensive street in the world.It is one of the few remaining original houses on the Peak.Half a century ago, this house was not luxurious in any sense of the word.When Charles and Rosamond Brown bought it in the 1960s, it was a wreck, the garden overgrown and the windows ajar, exposing the interior to damage from the elements. The Browns had so little money back then that they painted it themselves.More than five decades later, Mrs. Brown, now a widow, sold the house in 2017 for 3.2 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $408 million, including tax. It was arranged after the sale that Mrs. Brown would rent it back until summer 2018, according to The South China Morning Post.Now, with the house sold to a new owner named Yeung Kin-man, a Hong Kong-born businessman, no one knows what the future holds for the property. It may be lost to the wrecking ball, like most of the old Peak houses since a trend of demolitions started in the late 1970s and early ’80s, when the city’s property market started to boom. Or it may be preserved, a nod to the house’s history and the changes it has witnessed around it.While some bemoan the loss of history on the Peak, others think that trying to conserve the few remaining old houses there is ultimately futile.The demolition of a Peak property called Ho Tung Gardens in 2013 is emblematic of the difficulties and realities of historical conservation in fast-paced Hong Kong. The estate was built in 1927 by Sir Robert Hotung, a Hong Kong businessman and the first Chinese person to be granted permission to own property on the Peak.The city’s government had wanted to preserve the entire complex, but talks with the owner broke down. The owner ordered the main building to be bulldozed, and in 2015 the estate was sold to a developer for a record 5.1 billion Hong Kong dollars. The government’s preservation efforts had been no match for a private developer with much deeper pockets, and another piece of history was lost.For Lee Ho Yin, a professor and the director of architectural conservation programs at the University of Hong Kong, the solution is straightforward: If history is lost on the Peak, then so be it. “With Hong Kong’s conservation, we cannot look into the past anymore,” Mr. Lee said. “There’s not enough past left, not enough history. Hong Kong’s conservation has to look into the future and think about what happens in 20, 30, 50 years’ time.”That future, he said, revolves around heritage conservation in old neighborhoods in the city’s core where there is a larger stock of postwar buildings that can be preserved and refurbished for commercial uses.“What is Hong Kong? What is the nature of Hong Kong?” Mr. Lee said. “It’s an economic city. That is our thing. It’s how we’ve become what we are today. We have to play to our strengths and not try to be something else.”Good Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco’s huge chemical buyout loads Saudi Arabia’s coffersAramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.Boeing unveils its fixes for the 737 Max 8The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.Progress in China trade talks, but no deal yetAmerican and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.Theresa May says she will quit to save her Brexit dealIn a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Trump stakes 2020 on another Obamacare attackBehind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. The U.K. finds security defects in Huawei equipmentA British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Don’t be so sure of a Fed rate cutInvestors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Revolving doorSwedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.The speed readDeals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson & Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The first gig-economy I.P.O. is hereAs of this morning, Lyft is officially the first in a new wave of Silicon Valley companies to begin trading on the public markets, Michael de la Merced and Kate Conger of the NYT report.The ride-hailing service is now valued at more than $24 billion, after robust investor demand helped Lyft price its initial public offering last night at $72 a share, up from its first price range of $62 to $68. The company sold more shares than planned, raising over $2.3 billion.It begins trading on the Nasdaq this morning, under the ticker symbol LYFT. Investors will be anxious to see how big a “pop” its shares will enjoy. Some analysts have already given it a “buy” recommendation.Lyft’s stock sale will yield a windfall for its investors, including Rakuten of Japan, G.M. and Andreessen Horowitz. The company’s co-founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will become multimillionaires.But a big challenge lies in sustaining its valuation. Lyft is deeply in the red — it lost nearly $1 billion last year — and has told investors that it will remain so for some time. Matt Phillips and Erin Griffith of the NYT note that early investors captured the biggest gains, making it unclear how much is left for the public market.Wells Fargo’s embattled C.E.O. steps downTim Sloan, who took over Wells Fargo as the bank became embroiled in scandal, abruptly resigned yesterday, as the lender remains mired in legal battles.He became C.E.O. in 2016 after his predecessor, John Stumpf, resigned amid growing scandals at Wells Fargo. (Among them: the opening of sham accounts in customers’ names and improper customer fees.) Mr. Sloan was supposed to help the bank move on.But Mr. Sloan became a lightning rod, as employees complained about a toxic workplace culture and lawmakers and regulators fumed over a lack of reform at the bank. “I could not keep myself in a position where I was becoming a distraction,” he told investors yesterday.Critics welcomed the news. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who had called on regulators to oust Mr. Sloan, tweeted, “About damn time.” Shareholders also appeared relieved, with Wells Fargo’s stock rising 2 percent in after-hours trading.He’ll be replaced on an interim basis by Allen Parker, Wells Fargo’s general counsel and a former partner at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Mr. Parker got the job in part because he has good relationships with the bank’s regulators, according to the NYT.The U.S. sues Facebook over housing discriminationThe Department of Housing and Urban Development accused Facebook in court yesterday of engaging in housing discrimination, Katie Benner, Glenn Thrush and Mike Isaac of the NYT write.• H.U.D. says that the social network allows advertisers “to restrict who is able to see ads on the platform based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin.”• It also says Facebook “uses its data-mining practices to determine which of its users are able to view housing-related ads.”“The lawsuit coincides with a broader push by civil rights groups to scrutinize whether big technology companies are reinforcing real-world biases online by using algorithms to identify and target specific groups of users,” Ms. Benner, Mr. Glenn and Mr. Isaac write.Facebook now faces federal investigations into its business practices from H.U.D., the F.T.C., the S.E.C. and the Justice Department.More: The company has tightened rules on political ads in Europe ahead of the European Parliament elections in May.Why did Ghosn fall? Protectionism, perhapsCarlos Ghosn’s vision of merging Nissan and Renault was controversial within the companies. And according to the WSJ, it was Nissan executives’ fears over France taking a stake in one of Japan’s top companies that led to his downfall.Senior Nissan executives “wanted to derail any possibility of a full combination of Nissan and Renault, which they feared Mr. Ghosn was pushing,” according to the WSJ, which cites documents and unnamed people.They feared French control of the automaker, the WSJ adds. “Two Nissan executives, determined to halt further corporate integration, instigated a probe of Mr. Ghosn, chasing longtime rumors of wrongdoing, until they found evidence of alleged financial crimes to give prosecutors,” the WSJ writes.“The men initiated the probe in April 2018, the same month the French government, which holds a 15 percent stake in Renault, laid out the reasons it wanted a merger,” it adds.Merger discussions have indeed been stymied. The question now, according to Hiroko Tabuchi of the NYT, is whether the rifts are too deep to repair.The Brexit day that wasn’tFor two years, March 29, 2019, was supposed to be the day that Britain departed from the E.U. That hasn’t happened.Brexit has now been delayed to at least April 12. Before then, Prime Minister Theresa May — who on Wednesday offered to resign in order to save her Brexit deal — will try once more to win support for her agreement.Lawmakers are trying a new tack to push the deal through. “Ministers said they would disassemble Mrs. May’s deal into its two parts — one called the withdrawal agreement, and the other the political declaration — and ask Parliament to vote Friday only on the first,” Benjamin Mueller of the NYT writes.But the withdrawal agreement is contentious. The document, which outlines the terms of Brexit, doesn’t have backing across Mrs. May’s Conservative Party, nor from Unionist allies in Northern Ireland. But it may appeal to some pro-Brexit Labour Party lawmakers whose issues are with the political declaration, which outlines Britain’s future relationship with Europe.If the agreement passes today, Parliament will meet the E.U.’s deadline for completing the Brexit process, and would have until May 22 to extract Britain from the bloc. If not, Britain could crash out without a deal on April 12 — or it could ask for a longer extension.Investigators believe software is to blame for Boeing crashThe team studying the recent 737 Max 8 crash in Ethiopia has reportedly reached a preliminary conclusion, according to the WSJ: Glitchy automated anti-stall software activated shortly before the plane crashed.• “The emerging consensus among investigators, one of these people said, was relayed during a high-level briefing at the Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday.”• It is “the strongest indication yet that the same automated system, called MCAS, misfired in both the Ethiopian Airlines flight earlier this month and a Lion Air flight in Indonesia, which crashed less than five months earlier.”• “The preliminary finding from the ‘black box’ recorders of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 is subject to revisions, according to the people briefed on the matter.”Boeing announced a series of fixes for the anti-stall system on Wednesday. It said that based on what was known about the crashes, MCAS was in need of updating.3 big deals are propping up M.&A.The first quarter of this year was the third-best for deal-making in two decades, according to data from Refinitiv. But that’s thanks largely to three mega-mergers, without which 2019 would be off to a miserable start.• 8,765 transactions worth $927.2 billion were announced in the quarter. That’s a 30 percent drop in the number of deals and a 17 percent drop in their dollar volume compared with the same period last year.• Bristol-Myers Squibb’s $74 billion takeover of Celgene, Aramco’s $69.1 billion bid for Sabic and FIS’s $34 billion offer for Worldpay helped keep M.&A. volumes up.• Deal makers feel like there’s room for improvement. “We’ve been very happy in terms of big deals but we need more deals overall,” Anu Aiyengar, the head of North American M.&A. at JPMorgan Chase, told the FT.• The fear that’s slowly putting clients off deal-making, according to some advisers: recession.N.Y. prosecutors accuse OxyContin’s first family of fraudNew York State’s attorney general sued the Sackler family, which controls the OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma, yesterday, accusing it of siphoning money from the drugmaker and erasing a paper trail.• “The New York lawsuit alleges that Sackler family members abolished quarterly reports, insisted that numbers be recounted only orally to board members, and voted to pay themselves millions of dollars, often through offshore companies.”• It also accuses the Sacklers of setting up a new drug company, Rhodes, in 2007 to shift the opioid business away from Purdue. (Rhodes eventually overtook Purdue in market share for opioids.)• “The lawsuit also goes well beyond other cases in spelling out in granular detail how pharmaceutical distributors played a role in the opioid epidemic by ignoring blatant ‘red flags’ that indicated mountains of opioids were being diverted for illegal use.”• The Sacklers and Purdue denied the allegations.How Trump inflated his wealthIt’s well-known that President Trump exaggerated his riches to make himself seem wealthier. But David Farenthold and Jonathan O’Connell of the WaPo obtained his so-called “statements of financial condition” — and showed how he embellished the truth.Many figures in the documents weren’t verified, even though they were prepared by his accountants. Instead, the accountants simply wrote down what Mr. Trump described. “In the compilation process, it is not the role of the accountant to assess the values,” one of them said.That led to inflated figures like Mr. Trump claiming that he owned a 2,000-acre vineyard in Virginia (real size: 1,200 acres) or that an estate he owned in Westchester County, N.Y., was worth $261 million (local authorities’ assessment: $20 million).But Mr. Trump may be shielded from fraud claims over some of these documents, because his accounting firm explicitly said it couldn’t vouch for the figures, legal experts said.Revolving doorMorgan Stanley’s president, Colm Kelleher, will retire on June 30, after having helped stabilize one of Wall Street’s most prominent investment banks.Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s chairman and former C.E.O., is retiring.Campbell Soup has named Keith McLoughlin, who served as interim C.E.O. last year, as its new chairman.Barclays has hired Kristin DeClark from Deutsche Bank as co-head of its U.S. equity capital markets business and head of its tech equity capital markets team.The speed readDeals• States like New York are reportedly considering suing to block T-Mobile’s proposed deal for Sprint, even if the Justice Department approves the transaction. (Bloomberg)• Wow Air, a low-cost Icelandic airline, shut down yesterday after failing to find a last-minute financial lifeline. (NYT)• Saudi Aramco reportedly plans to issue $10 billion worth of bonds to help finance its $69 billion deal for control of the petrochemical company Sabic. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Democrats questioned how accurately Attorney General William Barr’s four-page letter to Congress summarized Robert Mueller’s 300-page report. (NYT)• While Mr. Trump called on OPEC to lower oil prices, his administration reportedly took the rare step of meeting with the oil cartel. (WSJ)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, who’s running for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure investment plan. (NYT)Trade• American and Chinese trade officials resumed negotiations today after what Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said was a “productive working dinner” last night. (CNBC)• China is offering foreign companies better access to its cloud-computing market as a concession in those trade talks. (WSJ)• Canada may help its canola farmers after China restricted imports of their crops. (Bloomberg)Tech• Huawei may be struggling to convince the world that it’s not a security threat, but its revenue soared to $105 billion last year, up nearly a fifth from 2017. (NYT)• The F.C.C. has fined robo-callers $208 million since 2015. But it has managed to collect only $6,790. (WSJ)• Apple’s Tim Cook and Qualcomm’s Steven Mollenkopf are scheduled to testify in a trial that is part of a continuing legal battle between the two companies. (Bloomberg)• Goldman Sachs is reportedly developing a subscription service for Wall Street data. (Business Insider)Best of the rest• Lawyers for Nigeria have sued JPMorgan Chase over $900 million withdrawn from a government bank account by corrupt former officials. (NYT)• American companies more than quadrupled the amount of foreign earnings they repatriated from offshore accounts last year. (WSJ)• A majority of revenue at Wirecard, the German financial-payments company, comes from referral partners — some of whom aren’t as significant as described. (FT)• A top shareholder advisory firm has a new benchmark for measuring C.E.O. pay: “economic value added.” (Fortune)• How a woman accused of being a con artist duped a bank out of $100,000: “She understood the financial jargon.” (Sky)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.LONDON — The London Stock Exchange said its pan-European platform Turquoise would shift trading in euro-denominated shares to its new Dutch hub if Britain leaves the European Union at the end of the week without a deal.British, Swiss and U.S. shares would remain on its existing platform in London, the LSE said in a statement. Turquoise was committed to offering the full range of shares on its UK platform, the LSE said in a statement on Monday.In the event of a hard Brexit on April 12, Turquoise intends to reintroduce European Economic Area shares on its London platform over the course of the year, it added.The LSE's preparations are similar to those announced by Europe's biggest pan-European share trading platform, Cboe, on Friday.Britain's exit from the EU was still hanging in the balance on Monday as Prime Minister Theresa May tried to coax the Labour Party into agreeing a divorce deal, two days before an emergency summit.The sector is waiting to see if Britain's markets watchdog will impose restrictions on where shares can be traded if there is a no-deal Brexit.The moves announced by LSE and Cboe provide flexibility to offer trading to customers in Britain and on the continent, whatever the FCA watchdog decides.  (Reporting by Huw Jones; Editing by Keith Weir)DAR ES SALAAM — Tanzanian authorities on Wednesday charged the managing director of Vodacom Tanzania and other telecom executives with economic crimes, court documents seen by Reuters showed.Egyptian Hisham Hendi and other telecom executives "intentionally and wilfully organized a criminal racket, which caused the government ... to suffer a pecuniary loss" of more than 5.9 billion Tanzanian shillings ($2.55 million), the documents said.They were not allowed to enter a plea nor apply for bail, and were held in police custody until the case comes up on April 17, a court official told Reuters.They did not respond to calls for comment following the issuing of charges.Vodacom, a subsidiary of South Africa's Vodacom Group, is Tanzania's leading telecom company by the number of mobile subscribers, with about 32 percent of the country's 40 million mobile subscribers, ahead of Tigo Tanzania, a subsidiary of Sweden's Millicom, and a local unit of India's Bharti Airtel.Earlier on Wednesday, the company said Hendi and several other employees were questioned by the police over the alleged fraudulent use of network facilities."Vodacom Tanzania PLC can confirm that it is fully cooperating with an investigation led by the Tanzania Police Force," Vodacom Tanzania said in a statement. Hendi was appointed as managing director last month after serving as acting chief executive since September 2018. The government denied a work permit to the company's first choice for chief executive, a Kenyan, it said at the time.The company said earlier Hendi was not immediately available to comment.After taking office in 2015, President John Magufuli launched an anti-corruption drive and vowed to stamp out tax evasion by multinational companies in Tanzania's mining and telecoms sectors. In 2016, Magufuli's government demanded that telecom companies list at least 25 percent of their shares on the local stock exchange. Vodacom is the only telecom firm to have listed. It raised $213 million in the initial public offering, Tanzania's largest ever, which attracted more than 40,000 local investors, most of whom were first-time participants in the country's stock market.In June, prosecutors charged chief executives of telecoms operators Halotel Tanzania, owned by Vietnam-based Viettel, and Zantel with fraudulent use of network facility. The executives were later released after paying a fine. Authorities last year charged five current and former employees of Acacia Mining, the country's largest gold miner, with money laundering and tax evasion. (Reporting by Omar Mohammed and Fumbuka Ng'wanakilala; Additional reporting by Nuzulack Dausen; Editing by Susan Fenton and David Evans)WASHINGTON — Risks to the global financial system have grown over the past six months and could increase with a messy British exit from the European Union or an escalation of U.S.-China trade tensions, the International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday.The IMF, whose spring meetings with the World Bank begin in Washington this week, noted that the global economic expansion is slowing, and an abrupt downturn could have a far-reaching impact. "After years of economic expansion, global growth is slowing, sparking concerns about a deeper downturn," Tobias Adrian, head of the IMF's monetary and capital markets department, said at a briefing to discuss the international lender's Global Financial Stability Report. The IMF warned against rolling back prudential regulations that could help to buffer the financial system in the event of a downturn."There is a risk that positive investor sentiment could deteriorate abruptly, leading to a sharp tightening of financial conditions," the IMF said in its report. "This will have a larger effect on economies with weaker fundamentals, greater financial vulnerabilities, and less policy space to respond to shocks."On Tuesday, the IMF cut its expectations for global growth to its lowest level since 2016, its third downgrade since October. In Wednesday's report, it cautioned a sharper-than-expected slowdown could spur tighter financial conditions.In Wednesday's report, the IMF urged policymakers to clearly communicate any changes to their monetary policy stances to minimize market swings. Noting investor sentiment had improved since the U.S. Federal Reserve paused its rate-hiking cycle, it warned that a strong shift in Fed policy could trigger a sell-off in riskier assets.CORPORATE DEBT CONCERNSThe IMF also echoed concerns raised by U.S. officials over rising corporate debt levels, saying that corporate sector risks appear elevated in about 70 percent of systematically important countries.A rapid tightening of financial conditions could drive a steep economic downturn, as creditworthiness in the corporate debt market has deteriorated. The stock of lower-rated investment-grade bonds has quadrupled since the 2008 financial crisis, and the stock of speculative-grade credits has nearly doubled. "The U.S. corporate credit cycle appears to be at its highest point in recent history," the IMF said, adding that global earnings growth has "likely peaked."The IMF noted that trading in British and European markets has remained orderly as authorities struggle to negotiate an orderly British exit deal.However, it warned that a protracted stalemate threatens to "unsettle financial markets, damage investors’ confidence, (and) adversely affect business investment."Globally, trade-dependent sectors have risen on expectations of a positive outcome for U.S.-China trade talks, the IMF said, but if those talks falter the organisation expects a renewed sell-off.To guard against financial vulnerabilities, the IMF said policymakers should proactively deploy prudential tools, such as the countercyclical capital buffer and bank stress testing. In particular, regulators should develop tools to tackle climbing corporate debt from non-bank intermediaries. "A rollback of regulatory reforms should be avoided," it added. (Reporting by Pete Schroeder; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Paul Simao)WASHINGTON — It would most likely resemble the aftermath of a major natural disaster: food shortages, skyrocketing prices, people out of work and a plummeting stock market.While President Trump sees shutting the border with Mexico as punishment for its failure to stop the flow of undocumented immigrants, economists warn that the move would effectively paralyze the United States economy given the huge volume of bluejeans, cars, flat-screen TVs, avocados and other goods that cross the border every day.Mr. Trump does not see it that way. In a series of tweets in recent days, the president has blasted Mexico’s immigration policies and erroneously claimed that shutting the southern border would save the United States money, given that the country buys more goods from Mexico than it sells to it.“Next step is to close the Border!” the president tweeted on Sunday. “This will also help us with stopping the Drug flow from Mexico!”“If Mexico doesn’t immediately stop ALL illegal immigration coming into the United States through our Southern Border, I will be CLOSING the Border, or large sections of the Border, next week,” the president wrote on Friday.While Mr. Trump has repeatedly frightened business leaders by threatening to terminate the North American Free Trade Agreement, which facilitates trade around the continent by cutting tariffs and streamlining regulations, shutting the southern border entirely would be far more destructive.Nearly $1.7 billion of goods and services flow across the border daily, as well as nearly half a million legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said on Monday.“Most of us in the trade business thought terminating Nafta would be quite a body blow, but what Trump is talking about now, shutting the southern border, would be catastrophic,” said Gary Hufbauer, a nonresident senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “It’s just absurd.”If Mr. Trump were to shut down the border, here is who would pay the biggest price:American manufacturersAmerican industries including agriculture and autos rely on Mexico for trade, either by selling goods and services into Mexico or by using Mexican materials in their products. So one of the biggest victims of a border shutdown would be American manufacturing, a sector the president has promised to help.The United States imported $349.6 billion of goods from Mexico in 2018, and it sent $265 billion back across the border, according to statistics from the Union Nations’ International Trade Center, making Mexico the United States’ largest trading partner after China and Canada.Automakers, who have spread their supply chains across North America, would be among those most affected. Shutting the border would lead to sudden disruptions in the supply chains for auto parts, causing car production lines in South Carolina, Michigan, Indiana and Alabama to shutter. The change would begin to affect American auto production in less than one week, said Ann Wilson, the senior vice president for government affairs at the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association, which represents auto parts makers.Other industries would be hard-hit as well. Many manufacturers of flat-screen TVs, computer hardware and medical devices are set up south of the border, while the apparel industry sources raw materials like cotton, buttons, zippers and threads from the United States and sews them into finished products in Mexico.Closings would also affect sectors outside manufacturing, including energy — the United States supplies much of Mexico’s natural gas through pipelines that run across the border — as well as the transportation sector, where hundreds of thousands of American jobs are tied to moving goods to and from Mexico through ports and by truck or train.Over all, some of the world’s biggest multinational companies would be affected — including Ford, Toyota, Boeing and Caterpillar — but so would countless small- and medium-size businesses that depend on trade to make and sell their products.Grocery shoppers and farmersThe signing of Nafta prompted a huge reorganization in agriculture on both sides of the border. Now, consumers in the United States depend on Mexican farmers for fresh fruit and vegetables like avocados, tomatoes, strawberries, grapes and mangoes, as well as packaged foods and beer. Mexico relies heavily on American soybeans, corn, dairy products, chickens, beef and other goods.The development of refrigerated trucks and railroad cars means much of the industry depends on “just in time” deliveries. If the border were shut down, consumers would most likely see an immediate spike in food prices, and supplies of fresh food could dwindle from grocery store shelves in a matter of days. American farmers would lose a major market, causing a drop in prices for their crops and a potential buildup of their goods in factories, slaughterhouses and grain bins.Lance Jungmeyer, the president of the Fresh Produce Association of the Americas, said that Mexico supplied more than 60 percent of all American produce in the winter and early spring, and that a shutdown could result in immediate and uncontrollable spikes in prices for items like bell peppers, squash, tomatoes, cucumbers, melons, eggplant — and yes, the beloved avocado. The rise in the popularity of the avocado would not have been possible without trade with Mexico, which supplies 80 percent of the avocados eaten in the United States.“If prices go up for fresh produce, people are going to have to choose between eating healthy or putting other food on their plates,” Mr. Jungmeyer said.Business ownersMr. Trump often credits his policies with economic growth, renewed business confidence and a rising stock market. But shuttering the border to legitimate commerce and travel could quickly undermine American growth and productivity, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in a statement on Monday.“Closing the U.S.-Mexico border would inflict severe economic harm on American families, workers, farmers and manufacturers across the United States,” said Neil Bradley, the chamber’s executive vice president and chief policy officer.It is hard to imagine that such a measure would not prompt a drop in the stock market, which has seized up as the president threatened to withdraw from Nafta or put more extensive tariffs on China. That would dent the retirement savings of many Americans, as well as affect the ability of companies to raise money in the capital markets.“Once the president breaks the glass once, that casts a lot of uncertainty on the future,” said Scott Lincicome, an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute. “It would cast a cloud of uncertainty around a commercial relationship that for decades has been almost an afterthought.”Border residentsAmericans often take for granted the fact that Mexico is an ally, ready to work with the United States on a range of issues, including water use and drug trafficking. But before Nafta went into force in 1994, that future was by no means assured, said Phil Levy of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.If business ties and relations with Mexico are strained, border communities in the United States would most likely suffer, from both decreased economic activity and potentially higher costs from crime and migration.In McAllen, Tex., for example, Mexican shoppers make up nearly one-third of the roughly $3.2 billion worth of retail sales the city records annually, signaling a grim prospect for city coffers if Mr. Trump follows through on his threat to shut down the border.“We’re impacted at a very personal level in that the people in McAllen, some of them, work in Mexico,” McAllen’s city manager, Roel Rodriguez, said in an interview, adding that 30 percent is “a huge number.”La Plaza Mall, a Simon Malls property, is constantly full of shoppers on weekends, and the parking lots are often dotted with license plates from various Mexican states. The city and the Chamber of Commerce spend tens of thousands of dollars advertising McAllen in Mexico each year.“The more global concern would be how it would impact the whole country, because the goods and services that come through the ports of entry, they don’t just stay at the border,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “The produce, the equipment, the auto parts. So there’s a real danger for cities on the border, but it has a greater impact than just the cities on the border.”Salvador Contreras, who runs the Center for Border Economic Studies at the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, said there was a big risk for large companies with plants in the Mexican border town of Reynosa, across the Rio Grande from McAllen, including Caterpillar, LG and Panasonic.“If you’re a multinational corporation who has, say, an operation in Reynosa, and your ability to operate is being impacted, you might question your desire to maintain that plant there,” Mr. Contreras said.MigrantsNorthern Mexican cities that depend on trade with the United States would be devastated by any extended border closing, leading to mass unemployment that could ironically prompt more attempts to cross the United States border. Under United States law, asylum seekers can request protections once they reach American soil — meaning border closings could actually encourage more desperate flights across the border.“If anything, it would promote more poverty in Mexico, which would then turn into more pressure on immigration in the U.S.,” Mr. Hufbauer said.WASHINGTON — President Trump acknowledged Tuesday that closing the southern border with Mexico could damage the United States economy, but said protecting America’s security was more important than trade.In remarks from the Oval Office, Mr. Trump reiterated his threat to shut the border if Mexico, America’s third largest trading partner, cannot restrict a flow of asylum seekers trying to cross into the United States. But the president’s economic team, concerned about the damage from such a move, said it was looking for ways to limit the fallout if Mr. Trump does do so.“Sure, it’s going to have a negative impact on the economy,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “but security is most important.”“Security is more important to me than trade,” he said.Republican lawmakers, economists and business groups largely disagree with that assessment and warned this week that closing the border could cripple the flow of goods and workers and devastate American automakers and farmers, as well as other industries that depend on Mexico for sales and goods.“Closing down the border would have a potentially catastrophic economic impact on our country,” Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said in an interview. “I would hope that we would not be doing that sort of thing.”Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, said that “a full shutdown of the U.S.-Mexican border of more than several weeks would be the fodder for recessions in both Mexico and the U.S.”Mr. Trump’s economic advisers have briefed him on the potential financial damage from a border shutdown and started looking for ways to mitigate it, including possibly keeping certain trading avenues open.Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, said Tuesday in a brief interview that the Trump administration was trying to secure the border without harming the economy.“The question is,” he said, “can we deal with that and not have any economic damage? I think the answer is we can. People are looking at different options.”Mr. Kudlow added that the administration was “looking for ways to allow the freight passage — some people call it truck roads.”“There are ways you can do that, which would ameliorate the breakdown in supply chains,” he said.But business leaders say there is no way to contain the damage from even a partial shutdown of the 2,000-mile border that the United States shares with Mexico. Nearly $1.7 billion of goods and services flow across the border daily, as well as nearly a half-million legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said Monday.On Tuesday, officials with the chamber called a partial border shutdown “uncharted territory” and said such a policy would have negative economic consequences, particularly for communities along the border.“We don’t know whether that is feasible or not,” said Neil Bradley, the chamber’s executive vice president and chief policy officer.Even if it is possible, a partial shutdown would still cause significant disruptions for industries that are highly integrated across the border, including automobiles, machinery and electronic equipment.“The North American auto industry will be crippled” in a week, Kristin Dziczek, a vice president for the Center for Automotive Research, an industry research group, said in a tweet.Mr. Trump’s pledge to close the border comes in response to what officials with the Department of Homeland Security say is an increase in migrant families who are flooding America’s immigration system, leading to overflowing detention centers and mass releases of migrants.The president told reporters that if Mexico cannot restrict the flow of asylum seekers trying to cross into the United States, and if Congress cannot agree to several immigration restrictions that Mr. Trump has long pushed for, “the border is going to be closed.”While 76,000 migrants crossed the border in February, that number is nowhere near the migration levels seen in the early 2000s. And a majority of the migrants crossing the border now are Central American families looking for asylum, as opposed to Mexican individuals looking for work. Homeland security officials could quickly deport Mexican individuals seeking employment, but, by law, they cannot swiftly deport Central American families or unaccompanied children.Homeland security officials have said they expect the number of crossings to surpass 100,000 this month. And a senior department official said those traveling in and out of ports of entry were already feeling an effect: There was a three-hour wait at the port of entry in Brownsville, Tex., according to the official, and there were around 150 trucks backed up and waiting to cross at Otay Mesa, in California.On Monday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said she would divert up to 750 border patrol officials from ports of entry to areas in between the ports to handle large groups of migrants crossing the border. A senior homeland security official also said the administration could start closing traffic lanes at the ports.“The crisis at our border is worsening,” Ms. Nielsen said, “and D.H.S. will do everything in its power to end it.”Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and one of Mr. Trump’s external advisers, has been urging the president to ease off the threat. On Tuesday, Mr. Graham portrayed Mr. Trump’s latest broadside as less an eventuality and more a calculated bargaining position.“You are taking a bad problem and, by closing the ports of entry, you are creating another problem,” he said during an interview. “To the extent that he wants to redeploy resources to the points of entry to deal with the ungoverned spaces — that will create economic upheaval, but that will hopefully lead to a solution.”Border activity makes up a relatively larger share of Mexico’s economy than the United States’, meaning Mexico would most likely have more economic damage from a border closing, Mr. Zandi said.But that does not mean the United States would be in a winning position. Communities across the country would probably see supply chain disruptions, product shortages, seizures in stock and bond markets and a plunge in already-fragile business confidence, Mr. Zandi said. The disruption would be especially sharp in the border states of California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, which all have Mexico as their No. 1 export market.Any closure could have far-ranging implications for a wide range of industries — including automotive, electronics and apparel — that source small components and deliver their products on a just-in-time basis on both sides of the border.It could also be devastating for the agriculture industry. Since the North American Free Trade Agreement began in 1994, American farmers have moved toward specializing in corn, soybeans, chicken, dairy, pork and beef to supply to Mexico, while Mexican farmers have specialized in fresh fruits and vegetables to send to the United States. Any delays in deliveries of these products could lead to near immediate price hikes and empty supermarket shelves, which would hit low-income Mexicans and Americans the hardest.Christin Fernandez, the vice president for communications at the Retail Industry Leaders Association, said that slowing or halting screenings at major ports near the border would lead to product delays and potentially higher shipping costs.“The entire retail ecosystem is sustained on the expectation that America’s retailers can provide consumers with the goods they want and need, when they need it, at the best possible prices,” Ms. Fernandez said. “If our suppliers are feeling the pain, retailers will feel the pain, and, ultimately, it is consumers that will bear the burden.”Stock markets do not appear to be pricing in any risk of a border closure. The S&P 500 was essentially unchanged on Tuesday, and it remains near a six-month high.NEW YORK — The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq edged into positive territory on Monday, with gains held in check by falling industrials as investors braced for what analysts now expect to be the first quarter of contracting earnings since 2016. While the Dow ended the session lower, the S&P 500 extended its winning streak. The benchmark index has now seen eight straight days of gains for the first time since October 2017. "We've been in an expansion for a long time, this is late-cycle mentality," said Charlie Ripley, senior market strategist for Allianz Investment Management in Minneapolis. "Typically, we see equities perform well toward the end of the cycle." First-quarter reporting period begins in earnest, with Delta Airlines, JPMorgan Chase & Co and Wells Fargo & Co results due this week. Analysts expect it to be the first quarter to show a year-on-year decline in S&P 500 earnings since 2016. January-March profits for S&P 500 companies are seen contracting by 2.3% from last year, according to Refinitiv data.Investors are also grappling with increasing signs of a global economic slowdown."On the top of investors' minds is the slowing growth narrative and whether the economy is headed to recession," Ripley added. "We'll get an idea as earnings come in from various sectors."Boeing Co was the heaviest drag on the blue-chip Dow, falling 4.4% after the company said it would cut production of its 737 MAX aircraft in response to a worldwide grounding of the jets after the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash on March 10. Boeing woes also weighed on the plane maker's suppliers. Spirit AeroSystems and Triumph Group ended the session down 5.1% and 6.2%, respectively.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 83.97 points, or 0.32%, to 26,341.02, the S&P 500 gained 3.03 points, or 0.10%, to 2,895.77 and the Nasdaq Composite added 15.19 points, or 0.19%, to 7,953.88.Of the 11 major sectors in the S&P 500, six closed in the black, led by energy which got a boost from rising crude prices.Utilities and industrials were the biggest percentage losers. General Electric dropped 5.2% after JPMorgan downgraded the industrial conglomerate's stock to "underweight" from "neutral." New Age Beverage Corp shot up 38.6% on news that it would expand its tea and coffee brand Marley with Walmart Inc.Snap Inc gained 3.6% following RBC Capital Markets' upgrade of the stock to "outperform."Drugmaker Histogenics Corp soared 56.0% on news it would merge with privately-held Ocugen Inc.Chipmaker Micron Technology Inc dipped 1.0% after Cowen downgraded the stock to "market perform," citing expected margin pressures.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.11-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.16-to-1 ratio favored decliners.The S&P 500 posted 31 new 52-week highs and no new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 63 new highs and 29 new lows. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 6.15 billion shares, compared to the 7.28 billion average over the last 20 trading days. (Reporting by Stephen Culp; Editing by Susan Thomas)NEW YORK — U.S. stocks just wrapped up their best quarter in nearly a decade, coming within a stone's throw of a record high.Junk bonds did them one better, regaining record levels and then some. Given the long-running correlation between the two asset classes, that could mean stocks will soon be back in record territory as well, keeping alive a bull market run now stretching into its second decade."We think this cycle has a lot more time than (others) think," said Krishna Memani, chief investment officer at Oppenheimer Funds. "It's not ending in 2019 and it's not ending in 2020. It has a few more years to go."Both stocks and their closest associates in the bond market - the high-yield debt issued by companies with less-than-stellar credit ratings called junk bonds - have come charging back in the first months of 2019 after taking a drubbing at the end of last year. The S&P 500 has gained 15% this year, and the ICE Merrill Lynch U.S. high-yield index has returned 7.6%.The clearest catalyst for the turnaround is the change in posture from the Federal Reserve, which has taken an open-ended hiatus from interest-rate hikes and will soon stop letting bonds roll off its balance sheet. The ensuing drop in yields on safe-havens like Treasuries has been a tailwind for riskier assets.While the two frequently move in lockstep, junk bonds have often taken the lead in demarking major turning points or signaling that both sectors may be heading into uncharted territory.A decade ago, for instance, high-yield bonds began their rise from the financial crisis more than two months before the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average found their bottoms. More recently, in the big corrections suffered by both markets in 2015-2016 and in early 2018, junk bonds regained record levels weeks before stocks did.In the current case, the high-yield index has been striking new tops since early February. Meanwhile, the S&P, up 22% from its December low, is about 2% short of last fall's record and the Russell 2000, the benchmark for small-cap stocks, is around 10% below its high-water mark.Graphic: Junk bond recovery signals more gains for stocks, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2I9iMCJ TOO GIDDY?The drive higher in both markets is occurring against the most uncertain economic backdrop in several years, a suddenly clouded horizon that drove the Fed to cut short a three-year tightening cycle. Last month the spread between 3-month Treasury bill yields and 10-year note yields briefly inverted, commonly seen as a signal of an oncoming recession.Of even greater importance for stocks and high-yield bonds, the outlook for corporate profits - the fundamental driver in both markets - is weakening. S&P companies' earnings may have fallen in the first quarter for the first time since 2016, according to Refinitiv data, and full-year 2019 profit growth is seen as less than half the pace of 2018's tax-cut fueled pace.In that context, some investors are skeptical that financial and economic conditions will provide sustained support for a run-up in stocks."While the economic data is coming across as mixed, the market and investors are willing to give it the benefit of the doubt," said Lale Topcuoglu, senior fund manager at J O Hambro Capital Management Group in New York."Both (credit and equity) markets are getting onto this weird cycle where they're pointing fingers at each other in the absence of any economic news."Graphic: Junk bond credit spreads are narrowing again, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2CQ1V4s OPTIMISM PERSISTSStill, equity markets are flashing green, and market volatility, which rises when investors are anxious, is not far off last fall's lows when stocks were last at a record.While such measures of equity investor sentiment do not yet fully reflect the recovery in stocks, as confidence rises it could lift them further, said Charlie Bobrinskoy, vice chairman at Ariel Investments in Chicago."I'm worried that the high-yield market is a bit overpriced," he said. "Having said that, I'm still pretty confident about stock prices for the rest of the year."Credit spreads, or the amount paid to investors above Treasury yields to compensate for holding riskier debt, are also cause for optimism.Even when 3-month Treasury yields briefly overtook 10-year rates, junk bond spreads remained relatively narrow. That also shows investors aren't overly worried, said Keith Lerner, chief market strategist at SunTrust Advisory Services in Atlanta.With spreads continuing to tighten, keep an eye on financial stocks in particular, said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group in Minneapolis. Spreads and the total return of the S&P 500 Financials index are closely correlated, but financials have not yet fully recovered from December's rout even as junk bonds have made new highs."There's some catch-up room in those stocks relative to what credit spreads are already saying," he said.  (Reporting by Kate Duguid and April Joyner; Editing by Dan Burns and Phil Berlowitz)NEW YORK — U.S. stocks edged higher on Wednesday, extending a strong start to the quarter as a rally among chipmaker shares provided a boost to the broader market on growing hopes of a trade deal between Washington and Beijing.White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said talks between the United States and China have progressed and both sides hope to get closer to a deal this week.Shares of chipmakers, which rely heavily on China for revenue, especially benefited. The Philadelphia Semiconductor index jumped as much as 3% to a record high. The index ended 2.3% higher.Advanced Micro Devices Inc shares gained 8.5%, the most on the S&P 500, and Intel Corp shares rose 2.0% after Nomura Instinet started coverage of both the stocks with "buy" ratings.Positive sentiment on trade outweighed weak economic data. The Institute for Supply Management's U.S. services sector PMI for March was below estimates and at its lowest since August 2017.Earlier, the ADP National Employment Report showed U.S. private employers added 129,000 jobs in March, below economists' estimates."It's the push-and-pull hope of a trade deal versus the stark reality of disappointing economic news," said Oliver Pursche, chief market strategist at Bruderman Asset Management in New York.The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 39 points, or 0.15%, to 26,218.13, the S&P 500 gained 6.16 points, or 0.21%, to 2,873.4 and the Nasdaq Composite added 46.86 points, or 0.6%, to 7,895.55.The S&P 500 came off its highs in afternoon trading after a report from cybersecurity firm UpGuard that millions of Facebook Inc's user records were inadvertently posted on Amazon.com Inc's cloud computing servers in plain sight.Facebook shares turned negative on the report and ended 0.4% lower."Facebook looks like it's trotting down the road to regulation," said Kim Forrest, chief investment officer at Bokeh Capital Partners in Pittsburgh. "Whenever a company has a high market share and it's in the political spotlight, that's not a great combination."Still, dovish Federal Reserve and trade hopes set the stage for a strong start to the quarter. The S&P 500's gains put the benchmark stock index just 2% below a record high set in September.Boeing Co capped gains on the Dow, with its shares dropping 1.5% after Baird said it expects Wall Street to cut earnings estimates "considerably" after the company reports delivery numbers next week. The numbers could reflect the 737-MAX groundings following the Ethiopian crash, Baird said.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.51-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.43-to-1 ratio favored advancers.The S&P 500 posted 57 new 52-week highs and three new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 79 new highs and 33 new lows.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.24 billion shares, compared to the 7.45 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days. (Reporting by April Joyner; Additional reporting by Sruthi Shankar and Shreyashi Sanyal in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta, Steve Orlofsky and David Gregorio)LONDON — Cboe has decided to offer trading in all shares in London and Amsterdam following a row between regulators over where shares can be traded if Britain leaves the EU on April 12 without securing a delay or a transition deal with Brussels.Europe's biggest cross-border share trading platform said if there is no deal, trading in British and Swiss securities will continue on its British platform, but trading in European Economic Area instruments - mainly euro denominated stocks - will cease and shift to Amsterdam."In the event that this happens it is Cboe's intention to re-introduce trading in European Economic Area instruments on its UK venue during 2019," Cboe said on Friday.Cboe said that if there is a long delay to Brexit or that a deal is negotiated, it would not start up in Amsterdam until it is able to offer trading in all securities on both its British and Dutch venues, which is likely to be later in 2019.This marks a shift at Cboe, which accounts for nearly a fifth of pan-European share trading.Mark Hemsley, president of Cboe Europe, said in January the exchange would only trade EEA stocks in Amsterdam, with British and Swiss shares limited to London. This would avoid splitting liquidity in euro, Swiss or UK shares between two centres which could damage prices, he said.The bloc's markets watchdog ESMA surprised exchanges last month by saying that if there is a no-deal Brexit, more than 6,200 shares, including 14 British stocks, could only be traded on a platform inside the bloc.Britain's Financial Conduct Authority was angered by what one exchange official described as a "land grab" by an EU keen to build up its capital market.Exchange officials are now waiting to see if the FCA will hit back and rule that under a no-deal Brexit, UK and some European shares could only be traded in Britain.Cboe's revised Brexit strategy means that its customers across Europe have a venue to trade all shares.The London Stock Exchange's pan-European trading platform Turquoise has set up a hub in Amsterdam, while rival Aquis Exchange chose Paris. "Up until now, we all believed we would be trading euro shares in Europe and UK and Swiss shares in the UK," Alasdair Haynes, chief executive of Aquis Exchange said."Ever since the ESMA share trading obligation (STO) and a potential STO from the FCA, which people think is highly likely to happen, then you are going to have to split liquidity," Haynes said."This is extremely bad news for end investor, but politically, people want to fight for territory here." (Reporting by Huw Jones, Editing by Iain Withers and Louise Heavens)SYDNEY — Shares in Australia's Crown Resorts Ltd tumbled on Wednesday after U.S. casino giant Wynn Resorts Ltd quit discussions for a A$10 billion ($7.1 billion) buyout, although some investors appeared to be hoping for a change of heart.Wynn, the world's second-largest casino operator, walked away from the deal after details of the offer, which had sent Crown shares soaring more than 20 percent, became public through a leak to an Australian newspaper.The indicative offer for Australia's biggest casino operator had been viewed by investors as opportunistic but also only the beginning of a drawn-out pursuit. That is a lot less likely now."Wynn's actions are more likely to reflect a genuine frustration with a breach of the confidential nature of the discussions than an attempt to add pressure to the negotiation," said Angus Gluskie, managing director of White Funds Management, which holds Crown shares.Crown stock dropped 10 percent at the open, then pared some losses to trade 8.5 percent under Tuesday's closing price, while the broader market fell 0.1 percent.At A$12.86, the stock remained almost 10 percent higher than its last price before Wynn's approach was disclosed, suggesting hope for a deal had not completely evaporated."I reckon they will be back, but will play cold hand for a while," said James McGlew, executive director of corporate stockbroking at Perth's Argonaut Ltd and another Crown shareholder.News of Wynn's interest was first broken by Australian Financial Review on Tuesday and confirmed by Crown, which also disclosed Wynn's offer price.Wynn then issued two statements, first confirming the talks, and, a few hours later, stating that they had ended. Crown said in a statement it noted Wynn's decision. Wynn shares fell almost 4 percent in New York on Tuesday. The deal was to offer Wynn a hedge against Macau, the Chinese gambling hub where its license are up for renewal, by giving it two lavishly revamped Australian casinos and a third still being built on the prized Sydney harbor front.The offer came as Crown is grappling with the effects of an economic slowdown in China, which has crimped revenue from high-rolling Chinese gamblers at its Australian tables. (Reporting by Tom Westbrook and Paulina Duran; Editing by Michael Perry and Stephen Coates)After years of being overshadowed by the likes of Apple and Alphabet, real estate funds have lately edged ahead of the overall stock market by betting mainly on old-fashioned assets like office buildings, malls and warehouses.In the fourth quarter, when the stock market really started to jitter and slide, the S&P 500 sank 13.52 percent, including dividends, but the FTSE Nareit All Equity R.E.I.T.s Index, a leading index composed of publicly traded real estate investment trusts, lost only 6.1 percent. For all of 2018, as the S&P 500 lost 4.4 percent, including dividends, the FTSE Nareit index lost only 4 percent.So it goes for this stalwart, if stodgy, sector: Real estate can often chug along when other sectors start to sputter. For that reason, a real estate mutual fund or exchange-traded fund may help buffer an otherwise diversified portfolio from some of the stock market’s swings. In addition, it’s an entree to investing in commercial real estate for someone who can’t afford the Empire State Building (which is owned by a R.E.I.T. named Empire State Realty Trust).R.E.I.T.s are property owners whose shares trade on stock exchanges. They can own a variety of real estate, ranging from the obvious — those office buildings, warehouses and shopping centers — to the more obscure — data centers, cell towers and even timberlands. Some own residential rental properties or finance home purchases, but those account for only about one-fifth of the overall R.E.I.T. market, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.A share in a real-estate mutual fund or E.T.F. is “effectively a hybrid of debt and equity,” said Michael J. Acton, managing director and head of research for AEW Capital Management in Boston. “The debt feature is lease payments you get from the underlying properties, and the equity feature is the right to re-lease or sell those properties.” The lease payments can provide predictability like bonds, while the property values offer upside potential like stocks.Morningstar, the investment-analysis company, found that from 1972 through 2018, R.E.I.T.s provided a compound average annual return of 11.5 percent, compared to 10.2 percent for United States stocks. Morningstar has also found that real-estate stocks are slightly more volatile, on average, than other stocks. During the global financial crisis, real estate crashed with other stock market sectors, with the FTSE Nareit index falling 37.7 percent.Still, real estate funds and E.T.F.s often can provide additional diversification to an investment portfolio because commercial property markets don’t usually move in lock step with stocks, Mr. Acton said. “There are leases in place, and the cash flows from those leases are already locked in.”In 2013 research paper, Pankaj Agrrawal, a finance professor at the University of Maine, found that adding real estate to a portfolio of stocks, bonds and gold both increased the return and damped the volatility. Professor Agrrawal split the hypothetical portfolio into sixths and allocated it equally across these asset classes: United States stocks, European stocks, emerging market stocks, United States bonds, gold and United States real estate.R.E.I.T.s must pay out at least 90 percent of their taxable income to shareholders. As a result, real estate funds can produce income in much the way bonds or utility stocks do. R.E.I.T.s tracked by the R.E.I.T. association provide an average annual yield of about 4 percent, compared with 1.87 percent for the S&P 500.How much of a fund investor’s overall portfolio should be allocated to real estate is a question, like so many in the investment world, that’s a matter of philosophical dispute.Matthew C. Brancato, a principal and head of the portfolio review department at Vanguard, said investors who own well-diversified index funds, like those built upon the S&P 500, may already have all the real estate they need. The S&P index includes 32 R.E.I.T.s, and together they account for about 3 percent of the index’s market capitalization.Layering a dedicated real estate fund or E.T.F. atop a broad-based core holding would imply that an investor wanted to “express a view about real estate” — either believing that it will outperform the rest of the market or just liking the sector, Mr. Brancato said.But portfolio managers of real estate funds say reasons beyond a fascination with bricks and blueprints might persuade investors to nudge their real estate allocations above that of broad-based index funds.For one thing, the allocations of the marketwide indexes are arguably too small, when compared to commercial real estate’s share of the economy, said Steve S. Shigekawa, senior portfolio manager of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund.“Commercial real estate is a very large market,” he said.Many large pension funds, which often buy commercial real estate directly, hold larger real estate allocations than that of the S&P 500, said Nina P. Jones, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Real Estate Fund. “Many of them have gravitated to 10 percent of their overall asset allocations,” she said. (Ms. Jones took over her fund on Jan. 1, after the retirement of David M. Lee, who led it since its 1997 inception.)Though real estate has performed well lately, there are, to swipe a line from the blues singer Robert Johnson, stones in its passway: Interest rates are rising, and retail real estate is being squeezed by the rise of e-commerce.Conventional wisdom says rising rates hurt real estate. The logic behind this is simple, said Jennifer Cookke, a lecturer in the Center for Real Estate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “You typically have debt on a property,” she said. “So when interest rates rise, costs are higher, and that reduces profit.”The managers of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund delved into whether rates really do damp R.E.I.T.s and learned that the effect was often temporary, said Brian Jones, who manages the fund with Mr. Shigekawa. “What we found is, in periods where interest rates were spiking, the performance of R.E.I.T.s suffered,” Mr. Jones said. “But if you go six and 12 months beyond a rate spike, R.E.I.T.s shares typically recover and do very well.”E-commerce’s effects won’t be sloughed off so easily. They can be summarized in a single name: Amazon. The online giant (and other e-commerce companies) is changing how people shop and raising questions about the need for physical storefronts.Steven J. Buller, portfolio manager of Fidelity Real Estate Investment Portfolio, said he foresaw continued demand for bricks-and-mortar stores — just fewer of them. “There’s too much retail space in the United States — 24 square feet a person, which is twice as much as Canada,” which has the second-highest amount in the world, he said.This country has 1,200 shopping malls alone, Mr. Buller said. “There are 400 class-A malls, and I think those will survive. The other 800? I don’t know.” Mr. Buller has allocated about 20 percent of his fund to retail holdings, and the Simon Property Group, the country’s largest mall R.E.I.T., is among his top stakes.An investor who wants to bet on real estate must make the usual choice between actively managed funds, like those offered by Neuberger Berman, T. Rowe Price and Fidelity, and passively managed indexed offerings.The latter include the Vanguard Real Estate Index Fund (which is also offered as an E.T.F.), the Schwab U.S. R.E.I.T. E.T.F. and the SPDR Dow Jones R.E.I.T. E.T.F.A misconception of some investors is that they’ve already diversified their portfolio with real estate because they own a house and perhaps a vacation rental, said Mr. Jones, of the Neuberger Berman fund. That sort of ownership is a narrow bet on one or two markets, comparable to owning one or two stocks instead of, say, an S&P 500 index fund. “You don’t derive the same diversification benefit that you can get from a R.E.I.T. fund,” he said.WAUWATOSA, Wis. — With astonishing range and rapidity, big-box retailers and corporate giants are using an aggressive legal tactic to shrink their property tax bills, a strategy that is costing local governments and school districts around the country hundreds of millions of dollars in lost revenue.These businesses — many of them brick-and-mortar stores like Walmart, Home Depot, Target, Kohl’s, Menards and Walgreens that have faced fierce online competition — maintain that no matter how valuable a thriving store is to its current owner, these warehouse-type structures are not worth much to anyone else.So the best way to appraise their property, they contend in their tax appeals, is to look at the sale prices on the open market of vacant or formerly vacant shells in other places. As shuttered stores spread across the landscape, their argument has resonated.To municipalities, these appeals amount to a far-fetched tax dodge that allows corporations to wriggle out of paying their fair share.Either way, homeowners and small businesses will have to pay more or live with smaller budgets for police, schools, garbage pickup and road repair.Businesses, of course, appeal property assessments as routinely as coaches work the refs. But this approach — labeled dark store theory by critics — significantly broadens the basis for those appeals while threatening to undermine municipalities’ ability to raise operating funds.“The potential for a domino effect of property tax appeals across the commercial and industrial portions of the tax base, which, were it to occur, could have a much more profound effect on some governments’ ability to levy” property taxes,” S&P Global Ratings concluded in a report last year.For a smaller town or school district, “the financial impact could be devastating,” said Scott Nees, a co-author of the report, noting that it could also threaten localities’ ability to borrow money.In Michigan, the state association of counties estimated that dark-store appeals reduced local revenue from 2013 to 2017 by $100 million. In Texas, the comptroller said such appeals could end up costing local governments $2.6 billion a year.And in Wauwatosa, a shopping polestar in Wisconsin where chockablock malls attract families in the market for $4,000 sofas, Adidas NMDs and a Cheesecake Factory pig out, the city is fighting property tax appeals in court dating back to 2015 from Lowe’s, Nordstrom, Best Buy, Meijer and United Healthcare. It recently settled with Target, Walgreens and a KFC franchise.“It’s like a virus,” said Kathleen Ehley, the mayor of Wauwatosa.In the Lowe’s case, the company spent more than $16 million to buy the land and construct its 140,000-square-foot building less than a dozen years ago. The city assessed the spot in a bustling retail hub right off Highway 41 at $13.6 million. The company’s appraisal was $7.1 million, based on sales of empty and once empty buildings in other neighborhoods.Lowe’s declined to comment because the case is being litigated.But the city’s assessor said Lowe’s had partly based its analysis on stores that were more than 25 years old and in economically declining neighborhoods. Another store was listed as comparable in part because of its “proximity” to a shopping mall, although instead of the booming center near this Lowe’s, that mall had closed 15 years earlier.City officials estimate that the current string of dark-store lawsuits alone would require it to refund $4.1 million of tax payments — the equivalent of about a tenth of its total property tax revenue this year.“Either my property taxes are going to go up or my schools are going to suffer,” said Lisa Williams, who lives in a classic Craftsman-style bungalow a few minutes’ drive from Lowe’s in Wauwatosa, a comfortable suburb of Milwaukee. “The stores want to get all the benefits of being here without any of the costs.”Ms. Williams, 53, a researcher at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee who has three children, added, “Everybody in the neighborhood shops there.”Efforts to reduce tax assessments on the local level are continuing even as businesses are seeing hefty reductions in their federal taxes from last year’s tax overhaul in Washington.The dark-store argument started to gain traction in a few states in the mid-2000s, but has snowballed in the last year. After retailers won some influential legal decisions, thousands of similar appeals from other commercial taxpayers — from manufacturers to owners of corporate office buildings — have followed.The judicial victories have elbowed the issue into the political arena. Several states, like Alabama, Texas and Indiana, have considered legislation that would curb the tactic.In nonbinding referendums in November, voters in 23 counties and cities across Wisconsin approved proposals calling for laws to prevent dark-store analyses from being used in tax assessments. (Wauwatosa was not among them.)That and similar legislative proposals have been opposed by Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce, the state’s largest business association.“Local governments want to exclude vacant buildings because a lot of retail has gone vacant in recent years,” said Scott Manley, the group’s vice president of governmental relations. “Retail property is less valuable today, and they don’t want to acknowledge it.”Appraisal guidelines vary from state to state. But mega-retailers argue, in essence, that traditional approaches that look at land and building costs or how much income the property can generate are not relevant. Instead, they say, appraisals should primarily rely on comparable sales, and the only sales that are comparable are of other big-box stores that have been vacated.Empty commercial buildings often go for bargain-basement prices because the structures — football-field-size stores or factories — were developed for specific purposes and, therefore, attract few, if any, buyers.“These warehouses are obsolete pretty much from the moment they build them,” said Robert Hill, a lawyer in Minnesota who has represented Walmart, Menards, Walgreens, CVS, Sturm Foods, United Healthcare and other companies. “It doesn’t matter whether they’re for sale in a suburb of Virginia or Nome, Alaska.”This is not an entirely new idea. In 1921, the New York Stock Exchange appealed its property tax assessment, arguing that because its building could not be adapted for any other use, it should be considered only a “tear-down proposition” that decreased the value of the land. A State Supreme Court judge disagreed.Sales comparisons often make sense for homes, experts say, because they can estimate what a willing buyer would pay by looking at recent sales of similar houses or apartments on the same block or in the neighborhood.Appraisals can be much more complicated when it comes to a specialized commercial property, where adjustments have to be made for location, condition, size, the incomes of area residents, traffic flow and much more. Is the property on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan or in a dead suburban mall? Is the building three years old or 30? Restrictive clauses in leases that companies themselves impose — such as prohibiting its use by a competitor — can further depress a property’s value.Sales comparisons are reliable benchmarks but only when there are lots of substitute properties and data, the International Association of Assessing Officers concluded in a 2017 report. “Using vacant sale comparables (without adjustment) to value an occupied property is not proper appraisal practice,” it said.What constitutes a fair comparison and adjustment, however, is open to debate.“Courts are grappling with the meaning of market value,” said Joan Youngman, chairwoman of the Department of Valuation and Taxation at the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy in Cambridge, Mass. “We are in the early stages of the issue working its way through the higher courts, and we don’t have the answers to some of these questions.”In Manawa, a town about 130 miles north of Milwaukee that has a population of 1,294, the mayor is carefully monitoring snow plowers’ overtime after settling a yearslong tax dispute with Sturm Foods, the largest local employer. The appeals began a couple of years after Sturm was bought by TreeHouse Foods, a multinational conglomerate, for $660 million in 2010.Sturm initially argued the factory’s property was worth less than half of its assessment.In 2017, when they finally settled, property taxes for everyone else rose by 12.4 percent — $300 per homeowner, on average — while the city’s borrowing ability was curtailed.“We have to be much more careful with services,” said Mayor John Smith. “It also reduces our ability to borrow.”Each week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m David Streitfeld, reporting from a very quiet week in Silicon Valley. The venture capitalists were at their vacation homes or exotic resorts, dreaming of riches to come. Entrepreneurs also must have taken time off, because I made it to San Jose in less than two hours, a personal record. There wasn’t even a new data privacy scandal to occupy the pundits.Amazon, however, never lets up. Chances are, something under your family Christmas tree or at your Hanukkah or Kwanzaa celebration was from the retailer. Perhaps everything was. Amazon’s 210th and final press release of the year summarized the company’s holiday season: best ever. If history is any guide, more than half those sales were made by third parties — shops big and small that are in essence renting a stall in the Amazon bazaar.With millions of marketplace sellers battling for a piece of the lucrative Amazon action, competition is fierce. Exactly how tough I didn’t realize until I read a piece called “Prime and Punishment: Dirty Dealing in the $175 Billion Amazon Marketplace,” by Josh Dzieza on the tech site the Verge. Almost as an aside, the article mentions that some unscrupulous sellers were taking an established competitor’s product, setting it on fire and then posting photos saying it exploded. Amazon would go nuts and pull the product as a safety hazard, leaving a clear field for the shady new arrival.Another common move, the article says, is to get a competitor’s product reclassified as a sex toy, suppressing it from ordinary search results. This happened to a seller of childproof locks and outlet covers, whose sales dwindled to zero because absolutely no one was searching for “sexual childproof door lock.”At Amazon, the customer reigns supreme, which means sellers who are accused of doing something wrong need to confess to something, anything, even if they are the victim of another seller’s sabotage. It’s so difficult to mount a successful appeal that many merchants hire professional advisers to get them out of Amazon jail.(I asked Amazon how often sellers took the arson route. In a statement, the retailer replied, “There are bad actors who attempt to undermine our store, but they do not reflect the flourishing community of honest entrepreneurs that make up the vast majority of our seller community.”)Amazon also turns up in a new story in Wired, which asks: Whatever happened to the Future Book? That is the writer Craig Mod’s term for the immersive, interactive, highly connected thrill ride that would finally kill off the traditional boring physical book by, oh, 2015.It didn’t happen. “My Kindle Oasis — one of the most svelte, elegant and expensive digital book containers you can buy in 2018 — is about as interactive as a potato,” Mr. Mod writes. One possible reason: Amazon had little competition for the Kindle, so innovation in e-readers ground to a halt.Both the Wired and the Verge stories might seem to be about how Amazon is overextended, can’t be all things to all people and needs to do what it already does better rather than keep expanding into new fields. But they’re really about how Amazon wins even when it loses.Mr. Mod’s point is that while Kindles never killed physical books, there has nevertheless been an explosion of activity around the book. For instance, it is much simpler and much cheaper to publish yourself than it was 20 years ago. There has also been an explosion in recorded books that will only grow as smart speakers in the home become ubiquitous.And who owns the leading home speaker company, the leading recorded books company and the biggest — by far — physical and digital bookstore? You guessed it.As for the Amazon Marketplace sellers who are undermined by bad guys, Amazon has an answer: protection, for a price.“When sellers get in trouble for customer complaints or attacks from counterfeiters,” Mr. Dzieza writes, “the solution is often to more fully meld with Amazon — to enroll in its fulfillment program, to purchase Amazon’s labels to make sure product isn’t being diverted or even make their brand exclusive to Amazon, which brings special protections.”A wrinkle about the third-party sellers that the Verge doesn’t tackle is the way Amazon makes them sign what is called a most-favored-nation or M.F.N. clause, which stipulates they cannot sell on another site cheaper than they sell on Amazon. British and German regulators investigated the retailer’s use of these clauses a few years ago, with the result that Amazon dropped the practice in Europe. But they’re still in use in the United States.In May, two law professors detailed the case against the M.F.N. restrictions as harmful to consumers in a Yale Law Journal article, “Antitrust Enforcement Against Platform MFNs.” A few days before Christmas, Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut picked up on the issue and wrote a four-page letter to the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department saying he was “deeply concerned” that Amazon’s M.F.N. contracts could stifle market competition and artificially inflate prices.For instance, Mr. Blumenthal wrote, a competitor to Amazon might try to gain an edge by charging merchants a smaller commission. If those merchants also sell on Amazon, however, they could not pass along those savings to their customers, because of the M.F.N. clause. That would be bad for consumers while reinforcing Amazon’s dominance. Amazon declined to comment.■ It used to be that only a few cranks criticized Amazon, but that is rapidly shifting. Still, I was surprised at the take-no-prisoners tone of David Heinemeier Hansson, the programmer who writes and tweets as DHH, in an open letter to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, on Medium.“I think you’re currently making bad decisions that you’re going to regret. Maybe even decisions that we as a whole society will come to regret,” DHH wrote. He added that Mr. Bezos still had time to shape his legacy “into something more than the man who killed retail, extracted the greatest loot from its HQ cities, and who expanded the most monopoly holdings the fastest.”DHH wrote his piece in November, but Medium surfaced it in its daily digest just last week. What makes his criticism especially noteworthy is that Mr. Bezos is a shareholder in DHH’s software development company, Basecamp. DHH notes that he and his co-founder have not talked to Mr. Bezos for at least seven years but that “if we get another chance, this would be the most pressing topic.”■ One last new Amazon development, which might be the biggest of all: unionization. Workers at Amazon’s biggest warehouse in Spain began a two-day strike on Thursday. Warehouse employees on Staten Island are calling for unionization, following the lead of colleagues in Minnesota. Here is a good wrap-up from the Guardian. Amazon has successfully stymied unionization efforts since the company began, so this shift is momentous.■ In non-Amazon news, it appears that the answer to the eternal question of whether the world can have too many iPhones is: Quite likely.■ Thanks to Apple’s news, the stock market as I write is again plunging. But there’s a silver lining for tech companies: They are big, and getting bigger, and a recession might only help them against the competition.Good Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Were investors right to be worried?Last year, the U.S. economy seemed solid. Skittishness in the stock and bond markets appeared at odds with signs of stability on the ground. But this week’s flow of distressing news, showing ever more evidence of slowing growth, suggests that the markets had cause for concern:• Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years, citing weak iPhone sales in China.• Delta Air Lines said its fare revenue, although growing, would fall short of the company’s earlier forecast.• The American manufacturing sector slowed sharply last month, according to a closely watched index released yesterday.And things could get worse, especially amid trade tensions with China, as companies line up to report fourth-quarter results in the next few weeks. Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told CNN on yesterday:“There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China.”More on markets: Forty-six percent of American companies issuing estimates for the fourth-quarter have revised their outlook lower, the most since President Trump’s inauguration. Traders are placing bets on whether the Fed will be forced to change course by a slowing economy and swooning stock market. Investors have piled into money market funds as a shelter from market turmoil. China will keep trying to attract bond investors, and a fresh campaign to promote its currency is expected. If all this news makes you want to flee, that’s understandable. It’s also a bad idea.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Coming up: The jobs report and public remarks from the Fed chairmanThe Labor Department will release its official hiring and unemployment figures for December at 8:30 a.m.What to expect: Economists anticipate a gain of about 180,000 jobs, a rise from 155,000 reported in November. Average hourly earnings are expected to tick up 0.3 percent in December from November and 3 percent from a year earlier. The unemployment rate is forecast to fall to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent.What that means for the economy: Economists believe that fears of an imminent recession are overblown. The unemployment rate is near a 50-year low. Job openings have hit record highs, and a growing number of workers are quitting, a sign of confidence in the hiring outlook.The Fed’s outlook: An indication of the Fed’s views on rates could come this morning at 10:30, when the central bank chairman, Jerome H. Powell, is scheduled to answer questions at a panel discussion in Atlanta with his two immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke.Consumers’ reticence in China could risk a global domino effectThe world economy has relied for years on the shopping stamina of Chinese consumers. But that spending engine seems to be sputtering.Apple’s surprise announcement this week was just one indicator that Chinese shoppers are pulling back. Amid a tense trade war with the United States, a shaky job market and efforts by Beijing to rein in what one analyst called a decade-long “debt-fueled binge,” Chinese consumers are feeling less than confident. Property sales are down, as are auto and retail sales.The NYT’s Alexandra Stevenson, Li Yuan and Raymond Zhong write:“A significant pullback could have a big impact on a world looking for engines of growth, on companies that counted on China’s continuing expansion and on global investors who have long viewed Chinese consumers as a steady source of profits.”The Chinese premier, Li Keqiang, met today with the three largest commercial banks in the country and pushed for policies to help bolster the economy, including lower taxes and fees and more financing for small and private companies. Today, China’s central bank said that, by Jan. 25, it will scale back the amount of cash it requires lenders to hold in reserve by one percentage point.As for Apple …The tech giant’s problems are not limited to nervous Chinese consumers, according to the WSJ. Competitors in China, such as Huawei, are moving in on Apple’s smartphone market share. In India, a growth market, Apple is a minor player. Customers in the U.S. are keeping their phones longer.Tom Warren at The Verge had this take:“People are upgrading less, carrier subsidies aren’t enough, and $1,000 phones are making consumers pause and consider. Mix that in with fears of a recession, and 2019 could be challenging for Apple and many others.”The company may pull iPhones from its German stores after Qualcomm took steps yesterday to enforce a court order last month banning the sale of certain versions of the device. The order stems from a ruling that Apple infringed on the chip-maker’s patents involving power-saving technology.Apple’s woes were keenly felt yesterday by its third-largest shareholder, Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. Tumbling prices for Apple and airline stocks caused more than $4 billion in value to evaporate from Mr. Buffett’s stakes in the companies, according to the FT.Big deal in pharmaceuticals: Bristol-Myers Squibb to buy CelgeneThe companies, both top sellers of cancer drugs with Bristol-Myers’s Opdivo and Celgene’s Revlimid, agreed to a cash-and-stock deal valued at roughly $74 billion. It was one of the largest takeovers in the industry’s history.• The deal values Celgene shares at $102.43 apiece, or a nearly 54 percent premium on the stock’s closing price on Wednesday.• The combined entity will produce nine drugs with annual sales of more than $1 billion each.• The WSJ points out some concerns with the acquisition: Bristol-Myers could take on more than $50 billion in debt. It will have to help Celgene, whose stock slumped nearly 40 percent last year, diversify its pipeline beyond Revlimid.Blame the quants? AQR founder says that’s ‘insane’A number of fund managers say that traders who use quantitative strategies to exploit market signals have made markets more chaotic and unpredictable. But Clifford Asness, the founder of AQR, one of the world’s biggest hedge fund groups, told the FT that investors who blame the recent market turmoil on quant strategies are “insane.”AQR suffered some of the worst losses in its 20-year history in 2018, and Mr. Asness said that critics were only trying to find excuses for their own poor performance. He pointed out that markets had always suffered bouts of turbulence even before quant strategies were introduced, and said there was little hard evidence that they were feeding volatility.Revolving doorSquare hired Amrita Ahuja from Blizzard Entertainment to be its new CFO, replacing Sarah Friar. (CNBC)Mark Reuss, who joined General Motors in 1983 as an intern, was appointed president of the automaker. He will succeed Dan Amman after being tapped to lead the company’s global product group and Cadillac last the summer. (CNET)The speed readDeals• As part of a move into the fast-growing jet rental business, the private equity firm KKR said it would invest $1 billion into a commercial aircraft venture with Altavair, an aircraft lessor and financier that manages more than 200 jets for investors. (WSJ)• Alphabet’s life sciences research unit, Verily, raised $1 billion in an investment round led by the private equity firm Silver Lake. (CNBC)• The N.F.L., once an adamant opponent of gambling, is making Caesars Entertainment its first official casino sponsor. The multiyear deal excludes sports betting and fantasy football. (AP)Politics & Policy• The newly Democratic-controlled House passed a plan to reopen the government. But the shutdown isn’t over. The Senate may not even vote on it. (NYT)• The shutdown, which affects the Securities and Exchange Commission, could cause delays in anticipated I.P.O.s from Uber, Lyft and others. (WaPo)• The congressional freshman class of 2019 includes the most female and racially diverse group of representatives ever elected to the House. (NYT)• Democrats wary of a debt-ceiling drama involving President Trump are leaning on an arcane measure called the Gephardt Rule to shield markets from threats of default. (MarketWatch)• The national debt has increased by more than $2 trillion during President Trump’s time in office, reaching $21.974 trillion at the end of last year. (CNN)Trade• Chinese and U.S. officials will meet in Beijing early next week to discuss trade, with a focus on intellectual property protections and Chinese industrial policy. (FT)Tech• Huawei punished two employees after an iPhone, a competitor of the company’s P-series handsets, was used to send out New Year’s greetings on Huawei’s official Twitter account. (Reuters)The best of the rest • Carlos Ghosn, the fallen Nissan Motor chairman accused of financial misconduct, will appear in court in Tokyo on Tuesday in his first public appearance since his arrest in November (NYT)• As more consumers buy video games digitally, sales have been flat for the retailer GameStop while its stock price has sunk, prompting some to suggest that the company might be better off selling itself. (WSJ)• U.S. automakers sold 17.3 million new cars and light trucks last year, an increase of 0.6 percent from 2017. But the upswing was driven by sales to fleets, while sales to individual consumers were flat. (NYT)• Wagering on higher inflation was a bad bet last year. (WSJ)• U.S. authorities charged three former Credit Suisse bankers in connection with a $2 billion fraud scheme that also involved the former finance minister of Mozambique. (WSJ)• Herb Kelleher, a co-founder and former chief executive of Southwest Airlines who turned the carrier into one of the nation’s most successful and admired companies, died yesterday at age 87. (NYT)• Daniel Loeb, the activist hedge fund manager, is another all-star investor who struggled in 2018. His firm, Third Point, lost about 6 percent in December, bringing its total loss for the year to about 11 percent. (CNBC)• Property markets in Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore show signs of softening, an indication that Asia is succumbing to the global property slowdown. (Bloomberg)• The yield on the two-year Treasury note dropped below 2.4 percent, reaching parity with the federal funds effective rate for the first time since 2008. (Reuters)• Retail vacancies in the U.S. inched higher in the fourth quarter, underscoring that the sector has withstood store closings across the country, according to a new report. Many feared that vacancy rates would soar and rents would plummet. (Reuters)• The yield on Japanese sovereign bonds fell to its lowest level in more than two years after concerns about the Chinese economy and global growth trends sparked a sell-off of equities in Tokyo. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The pain of the government shutdown is showingPresident Trump escalated the border wall fight in a televised speech last night, at the cost of leaving the government partly closed. He criticized political opponents for blocking the wall, although Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security measures like surveillance and fencing.The effects of the shutdown have begun to ripple across the economy, with mortgage applications delayed or canceled, public companies unable to complete deals and the well running dry for many federal employees.• Payday would have come this week for many of the 800,000 federal workers affected. With no paychecks on the way, their savings are evaporating and their credit cards are being maxed out.• The impasse is being felt elsewhere in the economy, including in home sales. Buyers are pulling out because of “economic uncertainty,” according to a National Association of Realtors survey. And closings are being delayed or canceled because customers’ mortgages were backed by federal agencies.• Several regulators are down to a skeleton staff, and companies are telling investors that their pending takeovers and stock sales could be delayed.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Can U.S. negotiators trust China’s peace offerings?Trade talks in Beijing wrapped up today, as Chinese and American negotiators hurry to strike a deal before March, when the Trump administration has threatened to raise tariffs again.In recent weeks, the Chinese have made some concessions, resuming purchases of American soybeans, dropping retaliatory measures on U.S.-made cars. China has also offered to welcome more foreign investors and help limit forced transfer of overseas companies’ technology to Chinese businesses.Yesterday, President Trump wrote on Twitter that the discussions were “going very well!”But in Washington, many are sounding a note of caution: Are China’s promises too vague? Are they enforceable? One scholar described Beijing’s compromises as “a modest adjustment” when the U.S. and other countries want a “great leap in liberalization.”The Kim surprise:  Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, stepped off a train in Beijing yesterday to meet with President Xi Jinping, at the Chinese government’s invitation. China said the timing of his arrival was coincidental, but his presence was a reminder that the U.S. needs China’s cooperation to exert pressure on North Korea.Scheduling issues: The Trump administration has said that if negotiations fail, it will raise tariffs on Chinese goods on March 2. But there are several other key dates in play.• Mr. Trump will attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, which starts Jan. 22. But the U.S. is reluctant to set up formal trade negotiations there, possibly because the president plans to use his State of the Union address, on Jan. 29, to demand broader powers to raise tariffs.• But China wants progress before the Lunar New Year on Feb. 4, which is generally preceded by a surge in consumer spending.China has reason to rush: The trade tensions are hurting its economy.• The World Bank said yesterday that Chinese growth would slow to 6.2 percent this year from 6.5 percent last year. Global growth is predicted to fall to 2.9 percent from 3 percent in 2018.• Corporate insolvencies are expected to increase faster in China than in any other major economy this year, growing by a fifth in 2019.• Chinese bond yields are at a two-year low. Its central bank loosened credit conditions five times in the past year.• Signs of progress in the talks drove markets higher in the U.S. yesterday and in Europe and Asia today.A reprieve for SearsThe struggling retailer reached a deal yesterday to stay alive after a flurry of last-minute negotiations, the NYT’s Michael Corkery writes. Sears’s chairman, Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager who took control in 2005, now has the opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion bid for the company. He is expected to enter an official bid at a court-supervised auction next week.Sears’ largest creditors are in the driving seat, and they have two options. They can let Mr. Lampert try to maintain it as a “going concern” or force it to liquidate by selling all its real estate, inventory, intellectual property and other assets.Other retail news: In the first retail holiday update, J.C. Penney reported yesterday that adjusted comparable sales fell 3.5 percent during the crucial shopping period. The department store chain, based in Plano, Tex., also said it would close three stores and may announce more as its new chief executive, Jill Soltau, attempts a turnaround.Sumner Redstone and his ex-girlfriend reach a truceThe media tycoon Sumner Redstone, 95, settled a long-running legal conflict with Manuela Herzer, writes Edmund Lee of the NYT. It was ostensibly focused on her right to his holdings, but it drew interest because of the salacious details it disclosed and the questions it raised about his mental state.Mr. Redstone and his daughter, Shari Redstone, run the private theater chain National Amusements, through which they control the CBS television network and a portfolio of companies at Viacom that include MTV and Paramount Pictures.Ms. Herzer, who is at least four decades younger than Mr. Redstone, had been named as a beneficiary of his will until he stripped her from the document in 2015 and forced her out of his mansion in Beverly Hills.Fallout from the ensuing court battle led Mr. Redstone to scale back his involvement in CBS and Viacom, and prompted a succession struggle that put his daughter at the top of the media empire.Court filings show that Ms. Herzer must now pay back $3.25 million in gifts and money received while she was Mr. Redstone’s companion.Dark days for Deutsche BankInvestment bankers at the embattled financial institution are steeling themselves for a double-digit cut to their bonus pool, according to the FT.Deutsche has been battered by bad news in the past year: Its stock price hit record lows, competitors are gobbling up its market share, and top-level employees are jumping ship as it fires thousands of others. In the third quarter, the bank said that revenue at its trading desk sank 15 percent.Last year, the company paid out 2.2 billion euros in incentives to employees; the final amount for this year will be announced on March 22.Revolving doorMetLife said Michel Khalaf, president of the insurer’s U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa businesses, would become its chief executive when Steven Kandarian retires on April 30. (WSJ)Herbalife Nutrition said Michael Johnson would return as its chief executive, after Richard Goudis, his successor, resigned over comments made before his promotion. (WSJ)Monzo, a banking start-up, is hiring Gary Hoffman, a former Barclays vice chairman who steered Northern Rock through its emergency bailout early in the financial crisis, as chairman. He will replace Denise Kingsmill. (FT)The speed readDeals• Executives from Siemens and Alstom met yesterday with Margrethe Vestager, the European Union competition commissioner, in an effort to rescue their troubled rail deal. (Bloomberg)• A six-month lockup period on stock in the smartphone maker Xiaomi expires today, letting employees and cornerstone investors sell shares. (Bloomberg)• Mexico’s new government is looking to woo investors and bolster initial public offerings by reducing its tax rate on them. (FT)• GlaxoSmithKline will look to buy early-stage assets and make partnerships, said the drugmaker’s chief executive, Emma Walmsley. (Reuters)Tech• Larry Ellison, the executive chairman of Oracle and a longtime friend of Elon Musk, disclosed a $1 billion stake in Tesla in regulatory filings. (MarketWatch)• Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are seeking input from hundreds of groups, including right-leaning ones, to help referee political speech. (WSJ)• Want to delete the Facebook app? On some Samsung smartphones, you can’t. (Bloomberg)• Skyworks, which supplies semiconductors to Apple, lowered its earnings guidance, citing weakness across its largest smartphone customers. (CNBC)• Apple’s Tim Cook earned $15.6 million last year, according to a regulatory finding — an increase of nearly 22 percent over 2017. (CNET)• Mr. Cook criticized Qualcomm as charging “exorbitant prices” to use its patents and employing “illegal” licensing policies, dashing hopes of a settlement in the companies’ legal fight. (CNBC)• Officials in Vietnam say Facebook failed to remove “slanderous content,” violating local law. (FT)Politics and policy• Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chief, shared polling data with an associate tied to Russian intelligence during the 2016 race, prosecutors said. (NYT)• There’s a sealed grand jury subpoena demanding information from an unnamed foreign corporation, which may or may not be from Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation. The Supreme Court is letting it proceed. (NYT)• The Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in 2016, Natalia Veselnitskaya, was charged by federal prosecutors in Manhattan with trying to thwart a separate money-laundering investigation. (NYT)• Democrats are demanding a delay in the Trump administration’s plan to lift sanctions on the aluminum businesses run by Oleg Deripaska, a Russian billionaire linked to the Kremlin. (FT)Best of the rest• Barbie is heading to the big screen, in a live-action film starring and co-produced by Margot Robbie. The news of the film lifted stock in the toy’s manufacturer, Mattel. (FT)• Has the market hit bottom? There are arguments either way. (Bloomberg)• Steve Eisman, the fund manager known for his role in the book “The Big Short,” is nervous about another threat to the financial system: BBB-rated corporate bonds. (FT)• Small-cap stocks seem poised for another year of double-digit profit gains, even as earnings at larger firms falter. (WSJ)• Chinese buyers have been the top foreign investors in both units and dollar volume of residential real estate for six years straight, with a focus on million-dollar properties. Now, more middle-class investors are hunting for affordable homes. (CNBC)• It may be the wrong time for anything radical at Barclays, but the activist Edward Bramson might still be good on its board. (WSJ)• By 2030, emerging markets are likely to have blossomed into seven of the top 10 economies in the world, with China at the top of the list and India surpassing the U.S. (Bloomberg)• American stock values: headed for a “conscious recoupling” with global equities? (WSJ)• Dubai’s ruler has plans to triple the size of his city-state’s financial center. (FT)• Hedge funds posted a 4.07 percent annual loss last year, beating the market’s performance for the first time in a decade; the S&P 500 fell 4.38 percent. (CNBC)• Palladium is on a tear, with the metal’s per-ounce price rising more than 140 percent since the beginning of 2016 and reaching $1,329 yesterday. It’s primarily used in catalytic converters, and became more expensive than gold in December. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.FRONT PAGEAn article on Thursday about the exodus of academics and business people from Turkey misstated the number of Turks who emigrated in 2017. It was 113,126, not more than a quarter-million, which was the number of all people — Turks and foreigners — who had left the country.•An article on Tuesday about the impact of the government shutdown on workers misidentified the agency that approves new beer labels for craft brewers. It is the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, not the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.INTERNATIONALAn article on Tuesday about a televised speech delivered by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in which he attacked a corruption investigation into his dealings with Israeli media tycoons misstated the length of his address. It lasted seven minutes, not 20.•An article on Tuesday about a coup attempt in Gabon, using information provided by the government, misstated who was among those killed in the episode. Lt. Kelly Ondo Obiang, the leader of the self-declared Patriotic Movement of the Defense and Security Forces of Gabon, announced the coup but was not one of the plotters killed in the attempt.BUSINESSAn article on Tuesday about Income Sharing Agreements as an alternative to traditional tuition models misstated the year that Lambda School was founded. It was 2017, not 2016.•The Common Sense column on Saturday about the forecast for stocks in 2019 misstated historical stock market performance noted in data by James Stack, president of InvesTech Research. There have been four instances when stocks have been down two years — or more — in a row since 1928, not four instances when they have been down for just two years in a row.SPORTSAn article on Tuesday about the opportunities for smaller soccer clubs competing in the F.A. Cup misstated Coventry’s status at the time of its loss to Sutton United in the 1989 F.A. Cup. Coventry won the Cup in 1987; it was not the holder at the time of its loss to Sutton United.ARTSA review on Tuesday about the play “Blue Ridge” by Abby Rosebrock misstated the title of a Tennessee Williams play. It is “Summer and Smoke,” not “Summer in Smoke.”SCIENCE TIMESAn article about the Undiagnosed Diseases Network misspelled the surname of a genetic counselor at Stanford University. She is Chloe Reuter, not Chloe Richter.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Saturday about the singer Christine McGuire omitted a reference to one of her marriages. She was married five times, not four; her fourth marriage, to George Rosenfeld, a restaurateur, lasted from 1993 until his death in 1996, and her marriage to David Mudd was her fifth, not her fourth. The obituary also misstated the surname of Ms. McGuire’s son who died in 2015. He was Asa Ashcraft, not McGuire.•A picture caption with an obituary on Monday about the retail scion Blake W. Nordstrom misidentified the family member at left in the photo. He is Jamie — not Peter — Nordstrom.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.HONG KONG — For years, no matter what was happening elsewhere, global companies bet billions upon billions of dollars that China’s consumers would keep spending money.Now, just when the world economy could use their financial firepower, they are holding back, worried about the country’s slowing growth, a trade war with the United States and  rising amounts of personal debt.Zhao Zheng, 26, is among the cost-conscious consumers.On Thursday, Mr. Zhao, a real estate agent, was browsing smartphones made by Xiaomi, a Chinese rival to Apple that prices its handsets at a fraction of what the American tech giant charges for iPhones. He said the success in China of Xiaomi and Miniso, a chain of low-cost variety stores, suggested that Chinese consumers were looking to get more for their money.“The economy,” Mr. Zhao said, “is definitely very bad.”A significant pullback could have a big impact on a world looking for engines of growth, on companies that counted on China’s continuing expansion and on global investors who have long viewed Chinese consumers as a steady source of profits.Stock markets stumbled again on Thursday, in part over concerns that American companies and manufacturers are starting to feel the effects from the slowdown in China and the trade war. The S&P 500 sank 2.5 percent, while shares of Apple dropped nearly 10 percent after the company unexpectedly slashed its financial forecast, citing disappointing iPhones sales in the country.The rise of the Chinese consumer is not over yet, and Apple’s disappointing numbers stem in part from the company’s own decisions. But the weakness at Apple followed reams of other data — declining car sales, faltering retail sales, a slumping property market, a tougher job market — that signal Chinese consumers may be losing their once unshakable confidence.The sagging confidence could undermine China’s efforts to redirect its economy and spur growth.The Chinese government hopes consumers will become a greater source of economic growth as the country’s longtime reliance on government-sponsored infrastructure projects and old-line industries like steel and cement pays ever-smaller dividends. In recent years, Beijing has rolled out a huge social safety net, tax breaks and other incentives to get people to spend more of their own money on the trappings of middle-class life.The spending slowdown in China could be a worrying sign for many of America’s biggest companies, too, at a time when their profits and stock prices are under pressure.Greater China — a region that includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan — is Apple’s third-largest market after the United States and Europe, accounting for $52 billion in annual sales in the company’s most recent fiscal year. General Motors, through local joint ventures, sells more cars in China than it does in the United States. Eight percent of Procter & Gamble’s total sales in 2017 came from Greater China.Other companies are also feeling the pinch. China’s auto market, the biggest in the world, saw sales fall during the first 11 months of last year. Sales of all smartphones fell by 13 percent in the third quarter of 2018.Chinese consumers continued to spend relatively briskly during other recent slowdowns, and they could still help get the country’s economy back on track. But they have reasons to be reticent now.By many measures, the country’s growth has slowed because of government efforts to wean the economy off a heavy reliance on borrowing as well as other policies that have shaken the confidence of the country’s entrepreneurs.“China is at a turning point in its economy,” said Andrew Collier, the founder of research firm Orient Capital Research. “They’ve basically been on a debt-fueled binge for a decade.” He added, “It’s difficult to turn the ship from industry to consumer at a time of rough waters.”For many people, circumstances have changed.China has too many apartments that home buyers do not want, depressing a property market that is the largest source of wealth for Chinese households. The stock market lost around a quarter of its value in 2018.And although they  have a long way to go to catch up to Americans, Chinese households are laboring under growing amounts of debt. Unorthodox Chinese lenders like the online shadow-banking networks known as peer-to-peer lenders are stumbling, giving consumers fewer places to borrow more.Declining business confidence, rising labor costs and the trade war with the United States also appear to be hurting the job market.China does not disclose reliable unemployment data. But a recent survey by Mr. Collier of job postings, recruitment ads, numbers of applicants on recruitment websites and interviews with corporate managers suggested labor demand had weakened significantly. Hiring demand in import and export industries has been hit especially hard, falling 53 percent in the third quarter compared with a year earlier, the survey found.Against that backdrop, it is not surprising that many consumers are looking for ways to spend less.Wang Xiaochuan, who made about $145,000 a year as a pharmaceutical sales representative in Yantai in 2015, now makes less than a third of that thanks to a tightening of regulations on the drug industry. He has cut back his spending, buying Clarks shoes instead of the more expensive Ecco brand, or Coach goods rather than Louis Vuitton.“I’m hearing a lot more bad news about the economy than good news now,” he said.In a country with an aspirational culture that for decades has encouraged people to get rich, Apple has long held a special place. Having a new iPhone meant its owner had made it. Seven years ago, the release of a new iPhone set off scuffles in front of an Apple store in Beijing.But price increases have put the iPhone beyond the reach of more and more Chinese buyers. An iPhone XR starts at 6,499 yuan, or about $950, just over two and a half months’ worth of disposable income for the average Chinese person.Rumors once circulated about young people selling kidneys to buy an iPhone. Now, the online joke goes, it would cost two kidneys.On the last day of 2018, William Tan, a 30-year-old university teacher in the southern city of Nanning, replaced his iPhone 7 with a phone made by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. Although the Huawei phone cost more than $700, about a month’s salary for him, it was still more than $200 cheaper than the base iPhone XR. He had used an iPhone 5, 6 and 7. But when his iPhone 7 broke down, he found he could no longer afford the latest iPhone.The Huawei phone, he said, works fairly smoothly and takes better photos than the iPhone.“I won’t choose Apple again at this price range,” he said.Chinese consumers are by no means done with certain discretionary purchases. Spending on movie tickets and services remains strong, economists said.But the consumer slowdown could worsen if Beijing does not address its economic problems.“The question is whether China can stabilize economic growth when it is facing economic headwinds,” said Wei Li, senior China economist at Standard Chartered.“If the labor market does worsen in 2019 or if financial conditions don’t improve, if the stock market remains low, all this could weigh on consumer confidence,” Mr. Li said.Given the uncertainty, many Chinese spenders will most likely continue to scrimp.Wu Yan, a tech company worker who was looking at Xiaomi phones on Thursday afternoon, said he had also tried Apple and Huawei phones and had decided they were not much different from one another. What matters, he said, was the apps, and they work the same from phone to phone.But Mr. Wu, 40, also said many middle-class Chinese people like him had reached a stage where their work was stable, their income was secure and they no longer needed to show off their spending power. His computer at home? It’s four or five years old now, but it still works fine.“Now we spend just to fulfill our needs,” he said.Good Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Hope springs eternal on Wall Street. But should it?Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYT’s Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Here’s a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors don’t see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trump’s unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasn’t just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies — China, Japan and the European Union — appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. China’s methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The market’s fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing “doom loops.” Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.Asian markets off to a discouraging startNew data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia.• The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years.• The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&P futures also took a hit.• Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Fed’s position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world.• Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that “winter is coming.” In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was “as cold and real as winter to every company.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Behind U.S. strategy in trade talks with ChinaWith talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, “Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are ‘easy to win’ and his recent boast that he is a ‘Tariff Man,’ Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.”After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Big plans for Big TechSilicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYT’s David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Tech’s dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Year’s post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is tech’s chance to make it right.A global turf war over A.I.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technology’s importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYT’s Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of “emerging and foundational technologies” being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Revolving doorSpencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Year’s speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)The speed readDeals• Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ)• Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the world’s largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT)• The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy• The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT)• How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT)• Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech• A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR)• Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN)• Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters)• Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest• Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT)• Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ)• Denmark’s government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT)• Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ)• Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ)• Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT)• Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as China’s central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT)• American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo)• Showtime’s fictional series “Black Monday,” premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo)• Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg)• Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels “snakebitten.” (WSJ)• Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.HONG KONG — With the Chinese economy beginning the new year on a decidedly downbeat note, Beijing’s leaders are injecting more than $200 billion into its financial system to ease lending.The People’s Bank of China on Friday said it would cut the amount of cash that banks must hold as reserves by one percentage point. The move will essentially free up 1.5 trillion Chinese renminbi, or about $218 billion, for an economy experiencing weaker factory output and consumer confidence while it weathers a trade war with the United States.The cut is not unusual for China’s central bank, but it comes amid uncertainty about how Beijing will manage slower growth. China’s slowdown has contributed to shaky global financial markets. On Wednesday, underscoring the broad impact, Apple unexpectedly cut its sales forecast for its latest quarter, citing disappointing iPhone sales in China, once one of its most vibrant markets.Chinese officials pledged last month to step up support of the economy, and they are facing new urgency, said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist for Capital Economics, a research firm. Retail and auto sales are down, and China’s latest manufacturing data showed factory activity shrank in December. While monthly data released on Friday showed improvement in China’s services sector, the overall picture has become more concerning.“The consistently downbeat tone of the data released since then will only have underlined the strains the economy is facing,” Mr. Williams said.This month, China will report economic growth figures for the last three months of 2018. While China’s headline growth figure is widely seen as unreliable, it dipped in the third quarter to 6.5 percent, its lowest level of expansion since the aftermath of the global financial crisis.The move by the central bank on Friday appeared to be part of a coordinated effort. Earlier in the day, Li Keqiang, the country’s premier, said China would move to shore up the economy through measures that included cutting bank reserve requirement ratios and lowering taxes.The central bank said it would cut its reserve requirement ratio — a measure of how much cash from deposits that lenders need to keep — by half a percentage point on Jan. 15 and another half a percentage point by Jan. 25.The move will give banks more leeway to lend money, though analysts noted the net amount of money flowing into the system would be roughly half the $218 billion headline figure, as the central bank shuts off other sources of funds. It also comes roughly a month before China’s Lunar New Year holiday, when Chinese households sometimes strain the monetary system by spending more and by giving cash as gifts.China has traditionally used its state-controlled banking system to flood the economy with money when growth slows. Last year, China cut the reserve ratio four times. But economists, small businesses and many others say the mechanism shovels money into big, inefficient companies or into investment bubbles instead of toward the smaller entrepreneurs who need it more.The cut “will be good for curbing the economic downturn and solving the financing difficulties of enterprises,” said Yu Yongding, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.“But this is just one policy,” Mr. Yu added, saying it risks pouring money into real estate and the stock market, which would do little to solve the economy’s problems. “We need a lot of other policies to cooperate.”For several weeks, economists and analysts have speculated that officials could move to push a hefty stimulus package that would give the flagging economy a shot in the arm. But such bold moves have become increasingly difficult for the Chinese government, which is contending with a huge debt load accumulated over the last decade to spur growth.Still, many analysts took the move as a sign that China’s leader would be proactive in heading off any worsening slump.“The central bank has made it clear that this wasn’t ‘releasing the floodwaters’ by providing a huge stimulus comparable to that introduced in 2009, but it is clear that they are redoubling efforts to stabilize the economy and the currency,” Geoffrey Yu, the head of the British investment office of the Swiss bank UBS, said in an email.“This swift action supports our view that there won’t be a sharp deceleration in the Chinese economy this year and that fears of a major global slowdown are overdone,” Mr. Yu added.A year ago, Jeromy Gaviola was struggling to find steady and meaningful work in San Francisco. Living in the working-class neighborhood of Hunters Point, he heard about a program that was training residents to build the Chase Center, the $1 billion, 18,000-seat arena in Mission Bay that will be the new home of the Golden State Warriors when it opens this fall.Mr. Gaviola, 33, applied to the program, was accepted and completed six weeks of training in early September. He then began working at the arena and was recently installing insulation and acoustical ceiling tiles above the Warriors’ practice court.“I’m very fortunate to have a job and be part of this,” he said. “I was doing little delivery jobs, just to get by with the bills, and was really close to being homeless.”Mr. Gaviola’s experience mirrors that of hundreds of others nationwide as demand for construction labor outstrips supply. Eighty percent of contractors were having trouble finding skilled workers, according to a national survey released last year by the Associated General Contractors of America trade group and the software designer Autodesk.Competition for workers over all has been heating up. December was one of the strongest months of job gains in the last decade, with employers adding 312,000 to payrolls, the Labor Department reported on Friday.Facing a tight labor pool, developers, public officials and community organizations are using commercial projects to provide residents with careers in construction. Together, they’re making an effort to recruit men and women from impoverished neighborhoods or challenged populations, such as former prison inmates. In booming markets like San Francisco, Denver and Miami, where gentrification is squeezing affordable housing, demand for these types of programs is growing.The training programs are also occurring in smaller markets. In Milwaukee, for example, Gorman & Company, an apartment developer, has teamed up with city, state and community agencies to give former inmates on-the-job training restoring dilapidated, tax-foreclosed homes, which are then rented to low-income earners.“There’s a very limited number of jobs that people re-entering society can do, but they are key to our success,” said Ted Matkom, president of the Wisconsin market for Gorman. “They can earn a good wage and are motivated.”In some cases, contractors are required to meet local hiring targets, particularly on big projects that include incentives or are providing a public benefit. Cities and community organizations are recruiting and training workers to help builders meet the thresholds.In addition to classes, the programs typically provide tools, boots and other equipment to the candidates, and they pay for items such as apprentice application fees, child care and gas. Case managers at the organizations even make sure newly employed graduates receive wake-up calls.The developers of Chase Center are getting a hand from San Francisco’s CityBuild Academy, a program that has trained about 1,400 workers since it was introduced in 2006. Among other services, the academy provides 18 weeks of training for apprenticeships in partnership with City College of San Francisco. JPMorgan Chase, which acquired the naming rights to the arena, has also kicked in $350,000 to fund special training courses.To date, those programs and others have provided union apprenticeships to 81 graduates, according to representatives from CityBuild and the National Basketball Association’s Warriors. The workers can make hourly wages of $20 to $30, not including overtime, said Joshua Arce, director of work force development for San Francisco.“These are the kind of wages you need to rent an apartment or to save over the long term to buy a home,” Mr. Arce said. “This is a way to get in front of displacement and address San Francisco’s housing affordability crisis.”For taxpayer-funded projects, San Francisco requires that local workers perform 30 percent of overall work hours and 50 percent of apprentice hours. The rules do not apply to privately funded projects, but some developers, like those building the Chase Center, also agree to strive for those goals, Mr. Arce said.Similarly, developers of the downtown Miami Worldcenter agreed to hire 10 percent of their skilled workers and 30 percent of their unskilled workers from Miami-Dade County, with an emphasis on recruiting from the nearby neighborhoods. That was in return for nearly $90 million in incentives to help fund the first phase of the 27-acre, $3 billion luxury residential, office, hotel, entertainment and retail project.The new state minimum wage is $8.46 an hour, but developers agreed to pay starting hourly wages of at least $11.58 or $12.83, depending on whether health insurance is included.“Even though employment is strong in Miami, these jobs offer a great opportunity for folks because they can move up the ladder as they meet certain criteria,” said Daniel Kodsi, a principal of Paramount Ventures, developer of the $600 million Paramount Miami Worldcenter condominium tower, which is scheduled to open this year.In addition to spearheading job fairs and other initiatives to recruit workers, the local community redevelopment agency used a federal grant to provide training to 30 students through Miami Dade College. Henry Crespo Sr., president of the Development Firm in Miami, a diversity and inclusion hiring consultant on the project, said another training program was being planned.“The idea is not only to steer residents toward the Worldcenter project,” Mr. Crespo said, “but to also give them the ability to find a career path through construction.”In Denver, work is about to begin on the $765 million redevelopment of the National Western Center, home to the 113-year-old National Western Stock Show.The project, which is being funded by a voter-approved permanent extension of a 1.75 percent tax on hotels and car rentals, will transform about 250 acres northeast of downtown into a campus for the agricultural organization and its livestock, horse and rodeo events held each January. It will also serve as a hub for education and research on food, water, livestock health, and other agricultural and environmental issues.The redevelopment is expected to create 1,000 construction jobs, and the city is requiring contractors to recruit in nearby low-income neighborhoods and to reach out to veterans and former prison inmates, said Gretchen Hollrah, executive director of the Mayor’s Office of the National Western Center. WorkNow, an 18-month-old platform of the Center for Workforce Initiatives at the Community College of Denver, is providing hiring support and training for the project and others.“There are many construction projects in Denver that have really intensified the need for an expanded pipeline of workers,” said Katrina Wert, director of the Center for Workforce Initiatives. “We want to reach populations that haven’t shared in the city’s recent growth and prosperity.”In 2017, WorkNow began recruiting workers for a $1.2 billion, 10-mile overhaul of Interstate 70 in Denver. With the help of $1 million from a philanthropy tied to the Colorado oilman Sam Gary, the organization placed 56 workers into registered apprenticeships and provided 190 experienced construction workers with additional training in its first fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30.Che Derrera found his way to WorkNow in October. He had difficulty landing work in his previous professions when he was released from prison in early 2018 after serving eight years. But Mr. Derrera, 45, is now an apprentice replacing traffic signals and setting up temporary lights at the I-70 project, and he continues to enhance his skills, including training for hazardous operations and emergencies.“This opportunity is a steppingstone — not to erase my choices in the past, but to build from them and ensure I don’t have any setbacks,” Mr. Derrera said. “It’s a chance to earn a good income and have long-term stability.”Do one thing, do it well and do it affordably. That seems to be the thought behind the boutique studio boom that has given us Drybar for hairstyling, SoulCycle for indoor cycling, Skin Laundry for laser treatments, MNDFL for meditation. And now we have WTHN — dropping vowels is not just for tech start-ups these days — which is trying to be the boutique studio version of acupuncture.Michelle Larivee and Shari Auth, the founders, are calling it a modern reimagining of acupuncture. Ms. Larivee is a former investment banker who dislocated vertebrae in a ski accident and was referred to Ms. Auth for acupuncture treatments for pain and, later, for fertility.The two women opened WTHN (pronounced “within”) in November in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, which may have the highest concentration of boutique concept studios anywhere on the planet. The modernization they’re going for comes partly in the form of the space itself. It’s a 2,200-square-foot retail-level space, which is unusual for acupuncturists, who more commonly practice out of small offices or clinics.The design looks not unlike most other boutique studios, with blond wood, sans serif fonts and a planted wall. There is a reception area with a retail space selling things like digestive bitters and energizing bath salts. Beyond that is a kind of mirrored vanity area for freshening up after a treatment, with organic face wipes and a jade roller and lockers to ensure you’re not tempted to check your phone. The 12 treatment rooms have heated tables, and a proprietary scent of bergamot and frankincense wafts in the air.WTHN has deliberately set prices, which begin at $65 for the initial visit, somewhere between those of a private high-end acupuncturist and what you’d expect to pay for community acupuncture. (Although it may save you from getting into an argument with someone for not shutting off her phone during community hours, as one friend of mine recently did recently. Talk about harshing a mellow!)Treatments are broken down into three categories: Prevent, which includes Second Wind for fatigue and In the Clear for immunity; Heal, including House of Pain for, well, pain, and Ladies Room for women’s health like PMS; and Glow, which offers Face Time, a facial acupuncture treatment.When I went to WTHN soon after it opened, I saw Ms. Auth, who is a licensed and board-certified (by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine) doctor of acupuncture and Chinese medicine, as well as a massage therapist, a practitioner of Rolfing and Pilates, and an Ashtanga yoga instructor. A real potpourri of modalities, I thought. This made sense when she told me that we shared an alma mater: the progressive, no grades, no majors Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash. As I settled onto the table, she told me a story about seeing Nirvana play in the school library.I asked for House of Pain from the menu, as I had recently gotten a cast off a broken ankle and was dealing with residual pain and swelling. “What else is going on,” she asked in the soothing voice of someone who seems to enjoy hearing what ails people. I began a laundry list of complaints: My body feels out of alignment after being on crutches and in a cast. I have terrible insomnia, and I get heartburn all the time. I’m stressed out and anxious on a good day.She nodded and began inserting dozens of tiny needles around my body, which didn’t hurt at all. She even put a few ear seeds, which look like small round stickers with a little metal bump in the middle, on my ear to calm the mind and help with pain. Then she covered me with a thin silver blanket that looked like the kind that runners who just finished marathons wrap themselves in.A little perk that defined the experience was sound therapy in the form of a pair of noise-canceling headphones that she slipped on before she left me alone. It played a guided meditation Ms. Auth recorded with Nate Martinez, who is known for holding sound baths all around the city. Ms. Auth’s voice came on prompting me to breathe in and out for a count of seven, first concentrating on my feet, then all the way up to my head. After, it was just the sound of chimes and bowls as I drifted in and out of sleep.About half an hour later, Ms. Auth came back with a mug of hot herbal tea for me and took the blanket off and the needles out. I felt the perfect combination of euphoric and spacey, and at checkout, bought three kinds of bath bombs.The post-acupuncture feelings of energetic calm stayed with me for two days afterward, around the time the ear seeds came off in the shower. And now I feel the familiar stir of a new obsession. In February Ms. Auth will be selling her own blends of Chinese herbs for things like insomnia and to ease anxiety, which I’m sure I will be buying at my next appointment.WTHN20 West 22nd Street; wthn.comConcept: The founders, Michelle Larivee and Shari Auth, have big plans to make this the Drybar of acupuncture, with a service menu divided into three categories: Prevent, Heal and Glow.Vibe: The space has a bright but slightly generic white-walled look. But the little things make the experience stand out, like sound therapy during treatments, mugs of warm tea and an area to freshen up stocked with products.Cost: From $65 for an initial 60-minute session. Add-ons like cupping or LED light therapy are $20.Good Tuesday morning. Breaking: JPMorgan Chase reported profit of $7.1 billion, or $1.98 a share, for the fourth quarter, missing analysts’ expectations. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Global growth in 2019: ‘Less strong and less synchronized’This year’s economic indicators are not doing much to bolster confidence so far. The World Bank cut its growth forecast. China is pouring hundreds of billions of dollars into its slowing economy. Apple’s downgraded sales forecast, which led to a market sell-off, was just one of several warnings from major companies.This week, several large banks announce their earnings, along with the likes of Netflix, UnitedHealth and Delta Air Lines. Yesterday, Citigroup reported quarterly revenue of almost half a billion dollars less than analysts had expected, saying economic uncertainty had hurt its trading business.“Almost all economists are forecasting a slowdown” for 2019, Janet Yellen, the former Federal Reserve chairwoman, said in New York yesterday. She added:“The global economy was firing on all cylinders in 2018 and now looks like we’ve got less strong and less synchronized global growth.”The China factor: Companies seen as particularly vulnerable to a Chinese slowdown include Starbucks and, after passenger vehicle sales fell there for the first time in 28 years, Ford and General Motors. Alibaba’s president, Michael Evans, told a retail industry gathering yesterday that “China has slowed down,” blaming “natural causes” and trade tensions with the U.S.A helping hand from Beijing: Chinese officials said today that tax reductions on a “larger scale” were coming, following cuts for major industries and in personal income taxes. It also announced a cut for small companies.Britain’s Brexit vote: Prime Minister Theresa May puts her plan for withdrawing from the E.U. before Parliament later today, less than 75 days before exit would happen automatically. She is widely expected to lose, possibly by a wide margin, which could expose her to a no-confidence vote. European stocks opened higher, and market watchers are bracing for volatility after the vote, but Britons don’t seem that worried yet.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________P.G.&E.’s bankruptcy tests insurers, investors and regulatorsPacific Gas and Electric Company, the California utility that has been in financial crisis after deadly wildfires in the state, said yesterday that it would file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection by the end of the month.The company said its liability for damages from the wildfires could reach $30 billion, report the NYT’s Ivan Penn, Thomas Fuller and Lisa Friedman. The bankruptcy announcement, made in a regulatory filing, pushed the company’s shares down more than 50 percent and posed a challenge for state regulators, who will have to decide whether to raise electricity rates.The utility’s woes could be just part of a wider economic toll from climate change, which is fueling wildfires nationwide.The quick take: Lights will stay on, but power bills are likely to increase. Wildfire victims may have to accept smaller settlements. And California may find it harder to reach ambitious climate change goals.Market fallout: Investors have long considered utilities a safe bet, so this is a reminder that volatility can strike any industry. Shareholders could be wiped out and bondholders could take a hit.A complex bet: The P.G.&E. stock held by the Baupost Group, the hedge fund run by Seth Klarman, is part of a bigger wager on the utility. Baupost also bought $1 billion of legal claims that an insurer held against it.The steel industry is under pressurePresident Trump has repeatedly spoken of a revival in the American steel industry, crediting his trade policies.But it’s now 10 months since he imposed 25 percent tariffs on steel imports, and prices in the United States have returned to their old levels. Hiring remains stagnant, and investors are wary about the industry’s long-term strength, the NYT’s Alan Rappeport writes:Stock prices for some of the nation’s biggest steel manufacturers dropped by as much as 47 percent in 2018 amid fears of slowing global economic growth and the potential for Mr. Trump to reach trade deals that remove the tariffs.The industry’s best hope would be major infrastructure legislation, which looks increasingly unlikely.More: President Trump said yesterday that tariffs had put pressure on China’s weakening economy, but trade talks between the two nations have yielded little.Day 25: It’s still shut downPresident Trump spent a snowy weekend cooped up in the White House, serving fast food to the Clemson Tigers and not giving in to proposals to end the government shutdown. Yesterday, he rejected a suggestion by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to restart operations for three weeks while negotiating.Mr. Trump wants $5.7 billion for a wall along the border with Mexico, where his repeated references to a “crisis” have not always reflected reality. His supporters remain behind him, even in areas where the federal government is a major employer and even as polls show that most Americans blame Mr. Trump and Republicans for the shutdown.• The shutdown is a further blow to farmers already hurt by the U.S.-China trade war, the head of the USA Dry Pea & Lentil Council told CNBC. President Trump addressed the Farm Bureau at its annual convention in New Orleans yesterday, urging farmers to look past short-term pain.• National parks that haven’t been closed have been plagued by trash piles and destroyed property, leading Tim Boyle, the chief executive of Columbia Sportswear, to spend $80,000 on a print ad urging the government to “make America’s parks open again.”Revolving door• Stephen B. Burke, the chief executive of NBCUniversal, put Jeff Shell in charge of Hollywood operations, including the international business and Telemundo, and said Mark Lazarus would oversee the broadcast network, the news division, the cable networks and the sports group. (NYT)• Zoox, an autonomous car start-up, hired Aicha Evans, senior vice president of strategy at Intel, as its chief executive. (FT)• The chairman of the investment group JAB Holdings, Bart Becht, stepped down after a split with his two partners over some ambitious deal-making. (FT)• Jon Korngold, a General Atlantic executive, will lead a new Blackstone business investing in fast-growing companies. (WSJ)The speed readDeals• Newmont Mining said it would buy its rival Goldcorp, a $10 billion deal that would create the world’s largest gold miner and signal a revival of M&A in the industry. (Bloomberg)• Telecom Italia made a bid for the Italian unit of BT Group, heating up competition for an asset rocked by an accounting scandal. (Bloomberg)• SoftBank plans more investment in the construction start-up Katerra. (Information)Tech • NBCUniversal said it planned to start an ad-supported streaming video service in 2020. (WSJ)• Intel’s board has been looking for a chief executive for six months. It hasn’t decided yet, but wants to do so before the company reports earnings on Jan. 24. (Bloomberg)• Pony.ai, a driverless car start-up in China, introduced a ride-hailing app for driverless cars. (CNBC)• The world’s most retweeted tweet now belongs to Yusaku Maezawa, the Japanese online retail billionaire who was SpaceX’s first passenger. It promises 100 of those who retweet it a share of a $923,000 prize. (CNBC)• Tesla stock stumbled as rivals such as Ford and General Motors announced electric vehicle plans at the Detroit Auto Show. (CNBC)• Google employees are starting a social media campaign against the use of forced arbitration in misconduct cases. There was a walkout on the issue in November. (CNBC)Politics and policy • Representative Steve King of Iowa was removed by House Republican leaders from the Judiciary and Agriculture Committees after saying he did not see why white supremacy was considered offensive. (NYT)• President Trump likes the freedom to do as he pleases. His nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, has a similarly permissive vision of executive power. (NYT)• Mr. Barr said he would let Robert Mueller finish his investigation, but also suggested that he could not stop Mr. Trump from ordering him to end it. (NYT)• In a political game of “Would You Rather,” Democrats mull whether the best candidate in 2020 will be defined by attractive policy proposals, or by likelihood of beating President Trump. (NYT)• No, Ivanka Trump won’t be the next World Bank president. But she will help the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, and the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, to choose one. (WSJ)Best of the rest • Carlos Ghosn, the former Nissan chairman detained in Japan since November on allegations of financial misconduct, was denied bail. He faces two more months in jail before trial. (NYT)• Fiat Chrysler jumped off the sedan bandwagon well before the other Detroit automakers. Maybe that’s why it now seems the strongest of the bunch. (NYT)• Coffee farmers in Central America, Colombia and Ethiopia are struggling to stay afloat as bean prices slump below a cent per cup. (Reuters)• An enormous bet from an anonymous trader that could earn $175 million feels a lot like Warren Buffett’s wager more than a decade ago. (CNBC)• Gillette has a new ad inspired by #MeToo. Men’s rights activists and right-wing publications don’t like it. (Guardian)• Mastercard is taking its name off its logo, leaving just interlocking red and yellow circles. (CNBC)• Representative Elijah Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, opened an investigation into pharmaceutical price increases with letters to 12 drugmakers, including Amgen, Celgene, Eli Lilly and Johnson & Johnson. (Reuters)• HSBC has processed more than three million foreign-exchange trades worth $250 billion using blockchain in the past year. (FT)• TV marketing aimed at black Americans has surged more than 50 percent in the last five years, according to a new study, driven by food companies. (Bloomberg)• European hedge funds are struggling to raise money from American investors because of the S.E.C.’s concerns about E.U. data protection rules. (FT)• Low unemployment need not lead to a surge in wages, according to the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank. (Reuters)• Passive funds had a record year in 2018, with 323 exchange traded funds listed in London, compared with 177 in 2017. (FT)• FedEx has agreed to pay $35.5 million over claims that it delivered hundreds of thousands of illegal cigarettes in New York. (New York Daily News)• At least two retailers, Walmart and Target, said they stopped selling Cut the Wire, a game that asks children to defuse a toy bomb, after parents complained. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Wednesday. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.WASHINGTON — The government shutdown and a late-year slump in the stock market have eroded Americans’ optimism for the economy and support for President Trump’s economic policies, new surveys show.The decline in confidence is widespread — among Democrats and Republicans, high and low earners — and it suggests mounting danger for Mr. Trump and the economic expansion that he claims as a strong point of his presidency. Sustained drops in confidence often signal dampened consumer spending in the months ahead, and can be the precursor to broader economic downturns.On Friday, the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to the lowest point of the Trump presidency, well below forecasters’ expectations. Analysts attributed the drop largely to the partial government shutdown, which has entered its fifth week.Economic confidence also fell, across nearly all demographic groups, in a poll conducted this month for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey.“If you have that many people in the economy that are not getting paychecks, are not able to pay their rent, pay their mortgages, there’s going to be a broad macroeconomic impact,” said Kevin Stay, a 27-year-old survey respondent in Pittsburgh. “That’ll affect everything. It’ll ripple through the economy.”Business groups on Friday called on the president and Congress to reopen the government immediately.“The current shutdown — now the longest in American history — is causing significant and in some cases lasting damage to families, businesses and the economy as a whole,” the groups wrote in a letter posted on the website of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.The SurveyMonkey poll found that Americans remained relatively upbeat about their personal finances, particularly Democrats and independents, whose assessment of their family’s economic situation has brightened since the November elections. But a wide swath of respondents reported increasing worries about the economy over all.Nearly a third of respondents to the poll said the United States economy was worse off than it was a year earlier. That’s up from fewer than a quarter of respondents in January 2018. And respondents were nearly as likely to say the next five years will bring “periods of widespread unemployment or depression” as “continuous good times economically.” As recently as November, optimists outnumbered pessimists on that question by more than 10 percentage points.The Michigan survey found something similar: Respondents were still fairly positive about the current economy but were far more negative about the future.Mr. Stay works for a technology company and hasn’t suffered personally from the standoff between Mr. Trump and Democrats in Congress. But he said the shutdown had nonetheless made him more cautious. He recently moved home from Colorado and is living with family; he had intended to get his own apartment, but he has delayed those plans partly because of the uncertainty surrounding the shutdown.“You’re not going to go out and make a major purchase if you’re worried the economy’s about to take a major downturn,” Mr. Stay said. “I work in sales. My income is pretty directly tied to how the whole economy is doing.”By most conventional measures, the economy is still doing well. The unemployment rate is near a five-decade low, wage growth is accelerating, and overall economic growth in 2018 was on track to be the strongest since before the 2008-9 recession.But cracks had begun to show even before the shutdown idled hundreds of thousands of federal workers shortly before Christmas. The stock market dropped precipitously late in the year as investors became concerned about the effects of a trade war with China, among other factors, and the housing market has slowed. Many economists had already expected growth to slow in 2019 as the effects of the tax cuts that took effect last year begin to wane.Those fears seemed to have little effect on consumers, whose spending powered a strong holiday shopping season and fueled economic growth for much of last year. Any hints that consumers are growing jittery are worrisome, said Stephen Stanley, chief economist for Amherst Pierpont Securities.“The consumer’s really the star of the show right now, and if you were to see any signs of a break there, it would be significant,” Mr. Stanley said.Downturns in consumer sentiment don’t always translate into cutbacks in actual spending. And past shutdowns haven’t done lasting damage to either confidence or spending. Jim O’Sullivan, the chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research note that the Michigan index also fell in 2013, then bounced back quickly when the government reopened. But he cautioned that the current shutdown had already outlasted any previous one.Adding to the challenge for forecasters, the shutdown has stopped the release of much government economic data. The Commerce Department, for example, was scheduled to release retail sales figures for December e this week; that report has been put off indefinitely.“Disentangling what is temporary effects and what is the underlying trend becomes that much more difficult,” said Brett Ryan, an economist with Deutsche Bank in New York. “It just adds more uncertainty during a period when the market’s already skittish.”In the absence of much hard evidence, economists have been left guessing about the shutdown’s impact. White House economists this week doubled their estimate of the damage being inflicted. The Council of Economic Advisers said the shutdown would reduce quarterly economic growth by 0.13 percentage points for every week that it lasted as federal contractors lost out on work and government employees went without pay.Some analysts see even bigger potential effects: Deutsche Bank estimated on Thursday that in the worst case, the economy could contract in the first quarter because of an extended shutdown.Portions of the surveys offered a pointed political warning to Mr. Trump. In the span of a year of SurveyMonkey polling, the president has lost much of the approval he enjoyed with Americans on economic policy. Nearly as many respondents now say his policies are making the economy worse as say they are making the economy better. A year ago, Mr. Trump held a seven-percentage-point advantage on that question.As a retiree in Arizona, Pat Cafferata hasn’t felt the effects of the shutdown firsthand. And although she watches the markets with interest, she said she wasn’t too worried that an economic slowdown would force her to make a major change to her way of life.But she is worried about the people who are missing paychecks, and about the larger effects of a prolonged shutdown. She pointed to reports that past shutdowns ended up costing taxpayers more than keeping the government open.“That is such a waste of money in an era when we don’t have enough money to waste on things like that,” she said.A former advertising executive, Ms. Cafferata, 74, viewed the shutdown through a business lens.“Any government shutdown is a reflection of poor management,” she said. “You don’t run a business this way, and to run a country this way is just terrible.”REYKJAVIK, Iceland — When it comes to print advertising, most high-end watch manufacturers go for the traditional: a product close-up and maybe a posed scene of gift-giving or sporting skill.Not JS Watch Company.One of its ’40s-style photo ads has its 69-year-old master watchmaker and charismatic frontman, Gilbert O. Gudjonsson, peering through a watchmaker’s eyepiece while his three business colleagues, clad in matching rubber swim caps, gawk at a statuesque bathing beauty beside a swimming pool.In another, the colleagues are aviation mechanics, stunned by an attractive flight attendant. Mr. Gudjonsson? He’s too busy inspecting a map to notice.Why would an atelier that has earned critical acclaim for its mechanical timepieces, made of Swiss movements and German parts, have an ad campaign that is the equivalent of an exaggerated stage wink?It’s because Mr. Gudjonsson and his colleagues — Grimkell Sigurthorsson, Sigurdur Gilbertsson and Julius Heidarsson — believe in watchmaking with a sense of humor.“Yes, we are watchmakers, but we are always having fun here,” said Mr. Gudjonsson, who once danced through Reykjavik dressed as an astronaut to promote Arc-Tic Iceland, a line of waterproof quartz watches created by the atelier.The business occupies a space on Laugavegur, a popular Reykjavik shopping street where tourists browse fisherman’s sweaters and sample grilled puffin. Visitors will often find Mr. Gudjonsson behind a door labeled “Probably the world’s smallest watch manufacturer,” in a narrow showroom decorated with vintage wall clocks.He has been fixing, selling or assembling watches since he was 16. “I never have to be in an office or use a computer — and I never want to,” he said.Occupying just 25 square meters, or 270 square feet, the showroom has a tiny work area tucked at the rear, so it could well be among the world’s smallest ateliers. In any case, some big names — including Tom Cruise, Ben Stiller and Yoko Ono — own its mechanical timepieces.Even the Dalai Lama has one. “He loves watches; he collects them,” Mr. Gudjonsson said. The local chapter of Friends of Tibet presented the watch during the Buddhist leader’s 2009 visit to Iceland. “When they gave it to him, he said watches are his only weakness.”ImageAn ad for the company has a vintage feel and conveys the group’s light touch.CreditJon Pall VilhelmssonEach year, the atelier produces about 500 watches. Mr. Gudjonsson assembles them in the work space, often with the help of Mr. Gilbertsson, his son — although Mr. Gilbertsson says he frequently seeks refuge from the atelier’s festive atmosphere at a second JS workshop nearby.The JS line has 14 collections, each with an Icelandic theme. One added last year was a 300-piece limited edition celebrating the Icelandic soccer team’s first FIFA World Cup spot and the smallest country by population ever to qualify for competition. (The team was eliminated after a loss to Croatia.)Some watch blogs and reviews criticized the design as taking the soccer theme too far — with a soccer ball engraved on the crown and a red 12 on the dial as a nod to fans, collectively considered the team’s 12th member — and the company for touting a niche timepiece as a dress watch at a luxury price of 2,418 euros ($2,748).“But not everyone is a collector,” Jason Swire, author of “Timely Advice” and a writer for Ablogtowatch.com, wrote in an email. (Mr. Swire said he used news releases to critique the watch.) “A lot of consumers prefer to own a single ‘nice’ watch and wear it for all occasions, and for that demographic a half-sporty, half-dressy watch makes a lot of sense.”Other JS models include a pilot-themed piece dedicated to Reykjavik Airport; a sleek dress watch celebrating the city’s historic “101” neighborhood; and a diver’s timepiece, water-resistant to 1,000 meters, designed for Iceland’s Coast Guard.Regardless of the theme, a simple and stylish watch that exudes a classic, vintage feel is the primary goal, said Mr. Sigurthorsson, the business’s designer and marketing director. “It’s always the first thing,” he added. “It has to be a classic watch. We design everything from that point.”Mr. Sigurthorsson says the watches are popular with collectors and tourists, more than two million of whom visited Iceland in 2017.One repeat visitor has been Ian Anderson, lead singer and flutist of the band Jethro Tull, who first visited the atelier in 2013 while performing in Iceland. He and Mr. Gudjonsson became fast friends, and the two still meet when he’s in town.“I was greeted by a warm and welcoming gnome-like individual who turned out to be a bit of a fan,” Mr. Anderson, who is a watch collector, wrote in an email. “I was given a generous gift of a ‘101’ dress watch at the show the next night, and since then have purchased several watches for myself, wife and friends.”Price-wise, the watches primarily fall into the €1,500-to-€2,500 range, while special editions can be €10,000 or more. (Watches purchased at the atelier include a 24 percent tax that tourists can have refunded at the airport.)The business’s most expensive model is the Frisland God Special Edition, a custom-order watch starting at €12,000, which also is arguably its most exotic: The watch’s dial is composed of ash from the Eyjafjallajokull volcano, whose eruption in 2010 disrupted international air traffic for nearly a month.Mr. Sigurthorsson’s brother harvested the ash, which was pressed into dials in Germany. “It was everywhere, layered on rooftops and on houses. He collected it in bags,” Mr. Sigurthorsson said. “So when we came up with this idea for the dial, he had lots of it in stock.”The company has its roots in a watch repair and retail business that Mr. Gudjonsson opened in 1977, nearly a decade after he graduated in the last watchmaking class at the Technical School of Reykjavik. (Aspiring watchmakers from Iceland now typically learn the trade in Denmark or Switzerland.)Mr. Gilbertsson grew up in an era of quartz watches but developed a passion for vintage mechanical timepieces while working at the family business. There he met Mr. Heidarsson, an avid watch collector.“I was repairing his watches,” said Mr. Gilbertsson, who also serves as the business’s technical director. “One day I came to him and said, ‘Since we both appreciate classic watches, should we try to design our own?’”After persuading Mr. Gudjonsson and Mr. Sigurthorsson to join them, the four men used their own money to establish the atelier in 2005.“When we sold the first watches, we used the money to buy parts for the next ones,” Mr. Sigurthorsson said. “This is how we built up our company.”It was a slow process, but it saw them through the company’s least humorous period: the 2008 financial crisis that devastated the country’s banking system. “When the banks collapsed,” Mr. Sigurthorsson said, “we were O.K. because we didn’t owe anything.”In her 25 years of marriage to Jeff Bezos, MacKenzie Bezos has been a loyal ambassador for Amazon, the company that made her and her husband the richest couple in the world.She was an integral part of its origin story, driving to Seattle in 1994 while Mr. Bezos sat in the passenger seat, working on the nascent company’s business plan. She was Amazon’s first accountant and was involved in its transformation from a small online bookseller to the e-commerce behemoth it is today, the second company in American history to be valued at over a trillion dollars.Ms. Bezos, 48, is a novelist. But Amazon has defined her public image almost wholly. The announcement this week that she and her husband would be getting a divorce may soon change that. A statement signed “Jeff & MacKenzie,” which was first posted to Mr. Bezos’s Twitter account, read: “After a period of loving exploration and trial separation, we have decided to divorce and continue our shared lives as friends.” The couple, who have four children, wrote that they see “wonderful futures ahead, as parents, friends, partners in ventures and projects, and as individuals pursuing ventures and adventures.”Over the last few decades, as Amazon grew, Ms. Bezos appeared with her husband at some high-profile events, including Vanity Fair’s Oscar parties and the Golden Globes; in 2012, she was a host of the Met Gala. (Amazon also underwrote the event.) But for the most part, Ms. Bezos has guarded her privacy, preferring to focus on writing and her children. She could not be reached for comment on this article.She has made infrequent forays into the public eye to promote her books and to defend her husband’s company. In 2013, she posted a scathing one-star review on Amazon of “The Everything Store,” a book about Amazon by Brad Stone, to say it was plagued by “numerous factual inaccuracies” and “full of techniques which stretch the boundaries of non-fiction.” (Mr. Stone is a veteran technology reporter. Michiko Kakutani, reviewing his book for The New York Times, said he told “this story of disruptive innovation with authority and verve, and lots of well-informed reporting.”)Little is known about Ms. Bezos, a private woman who may be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.“The Book Worm”MacKenzie Tuttle, an aspiring novelist, met her husband at D. E. Shaw, a New York hedge fund where Mr. Bezos, a computer scientist by training, had become a senior vice president. She told Vogue that she took the position of administrative assistant to pay the bills while she worked on her novels, but she soon found herself enamored with the laugh of the man who worked in the next office over. As Ms. Bezos put it in a 2013 interview with Charlie Rose: “It was love at first listen.”Within three months of dating, the two were engaged; they married shortly thereafter at a resort in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Bezos was 30; Ms. Bezos was 23.She often described herself as a bookish introvert, especially compared with Mr. Bezos, a swaggering, infinitely expansive businessman whose chief romantic desire, he told Wired in 1999, six years after his wedding, had been to meet someone “resourceful.” (That type of attraction seems to be mutual. In 2017, at a Summit panel, Mr. Bezos said that one of his wife’s sayings is: “I would much rather have a kid with nine fingers than a resourceless kid.”)Ms. Bezos’s literary ambitions began early. According to interviews and her author biography on Amazon (where she coyly notes that she “lives in Seattle with her husband and four children”), she started writing seriously at age 6, when she finished a 142-page chapter book titled “The Book Worm.” It was later destroyed in a flood; Ms. Bezos has said that she now meticulously backs up her work.At Princeton, she studied creative writing under the Nobel Prize-winning novelist Toni Morrison, who hired her as a research assistant for the 1992 novel “Jazz” and introduced her to her high-powered literary agent, Amanda Urban. In Vogue, Ms. Morrison hailed Ms. Bezos as a rare talent, calling her “one of the best students I’ve ever had in my creative writing classes.” In 2005 she gave Ms. Bezos a glowing blurb on her debut novel, “The Testing of Luther Albright,” calling it, “a rarity: a sophisticated novel that breaks and swells the heart.”After graduating from Princeton in 1992, six years after Mr. Bezos graduated from the same university, Ms. Bezos took the job that introduced her to the future e-commerce titan. The couple married in 1993 and moved to Seattle in 1994, the same year Amazon was incorporated. Quickly, Ms. Bezos’s identity became enfolded into her husband’s company, even as she sought to make her mark in a publishing industry that he worked tirelessly to upend.Amazon AmbassadorFrom the start, Mr. Bezos knew he wanted to disrupt traditional retail businesses using the internet. He quickly established Amazon as a successful internet bookstore and then began to diversify, selling music (when that was still viable), videos, medication and other consumer goods.His vision, as told to Chip Bayers and published in a 1999 Wired profile, was prescient. Mr. Bezos predicted that in 2020: The vast bulk of store-bought goods — food staples, paper products, cleaning supplies, and the like — you will order electronically. Some physical storefronts will survive, but they’ll have to offer at least one of two things: entertainment value or immediate convenience.MacKenzie Bezos, who first lived with her husband in a rented home in an East Seattle suburb, was heavily involved in the business at the start: In addition to working as an accountant, she helped brainstorm names for the company and even shipped early orders through UPS, according to “The Everything Store.”“She was clearly a voice in the room in those early years,” Mr. Stone said in an interview for this article.In 1999, they moved into a $10 million mansion in Medina, Wash., and Ms. Bezos became pregnant with their first child. As they rapidly accumulated wealth, the Bezos family took pains to preserve the trappings of normalcy. Ms. Bezos often drove the four children to school in a Honda, and would then drop Mr. Bezos at the office, Mr. Stone wrote.As the company flourished, Ms. Bezos stepped back and focused on her family and her literary ambitions.“Business wasn’t her passion, and when Amazon took off she wasn’t as involved in the day-to-day business,” Mr. Stone said.She spent a decade on her first novel, often getting up early to write, and signed with her mentor’s literary agent, Ms. Urban at ICM Partners, who also represents Cormac McCarthy, Haruki Murakami and Kazuo Ishiguro. “The Testing of Luther Albright,” which was published by Harper in 2005 and was widely embraced by critics, tells the story of an engineer whose professional and home lives begin to unravel in the 1980s. In a review in The New York Times, Kate Bolick called the novel “quietly absorbing.” The Los Angeles Times named it one of the best books of the year, and Publishers Weekly praised Ms. Bezos’s “subtle imagination and a startling talent for naturalism.”In 2013, Ms. Bezos published her second novel, “Traps,” which follows the journey of woman named Jessica Lessing, a reclusive film star, as she emerges from hiding to confront her father, a con man who has been selling her out to the paparazzi for years. Jessica drives to Las Vegas to meet him, and encounters three other women: a teen mother, a dog-shelter owner and a former military bodyguard, who become her allies.“I would say the biggest theme in the book is the idea that the things that we worry over the most in life, the things that we feel trapped by, the mistakes we’ve made, the bad luck that we come across, the accidents that happen to us, the paradoxes — in the end, oftentimes those things are the things that we’ll look back and be the most grateful for,” Ms. Bezos said of the novel during an interview with Charlie Rose. “They take us where we need to go.”ImageCreditKnopfThroughout their marriage, Mr. Bezos was an enthusiastic supporter of Ms. Bezos’s fiction, and would clear his schedule to read drafts of her novels, Ms. Bezos told Vogue. In the acknowledgments of “Traps,” she called him “my most devoted reader.”But Ms. Bezos’s literary career may have been complicated to some extent by her high-profile husband, who has done more than perhaps any individual in recent history to transform and sometimes destabilize the book-selling business. Many independent booksellers, publishers and agents blame Amazon for building a monopoly that has put independent stores out of business and poses a dire threat to once thriving chains like Barnes & Noble. Even though Amazon splashily introduced its own publishing imprints, Ms. Bezos still chose traditional houses for her books: Harper and Knopf. (When asked by an interviewer why Ms. Bezos wasn’t publishing her books through Amazon’s fiction imprints, Mr. Bezos jokingly described his wife as “the fish that got away.”)Sales of her books have been modest: The novels have sold a few thousand print copies, according to NPD BookScan, which tracks some 85 percent of print sales. Some independent booksellers refused to stock Ms. Bezos’s novels, according to a publishing executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Ms. Urban, Ms. Bezos’s literary agent, declined to comment for this article.Billion-Dollar DivorceThe Bezoses were the richest couple in the world; their divorce exists at a level of wealth that is virtually unprecedented. There have been billion-dollar divorces, like that of Steve and Elaine Wynn who owned casinos together, and certainly, technology entrepreneurs have been in and out of divorce court — most notably Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle who has been wed and unwed four times.But there has never been a divorce with a couple worth an estimated $137 billion, as Mr. and Ms. Bezos are.Little is known about the couple’s financial arrangements. Divorces are governed by state law, and the Bezoses’ primary residence and business are in Washington State, a community property state where any income earned or wealth created during the marriage is to be divided equitably between spouses.But some lawyers think it is unlikely that Mr. and Mrs. Bezos will adhere to that guideline in a predictable manner. If they were to split assets equally, Mr. Bezos could find the 16.1 percent of Amazon stock he owns halved.“I’d imagine they didn’t fight at all over how much wealth each other gets,” said William Zabel, a founding partner of the law firm Schulte Roth and Zabel, who has handled many high-profile divorce cases but not worked with the Bezoses. Probably, he said, “they fought about control.”Mr. Zabel represented Wendi Murdoch and Jane Welch in their separations, and said he thought the Bezoses would almost certainly negotiate a way to split the value of the Amazon shares while allowing Mr. Bezos the leverage he might need. The length of time such an agreement remains in place would be part of the negotiations.Ms. Bezos has kept a low profile in recent weeks, and has not been photographed since the divorce was announced. (Mr. Bezos, by contrast, has continued to appear publicly and was pictured this month at a Golden Globes after-party with Lauren Sanchez, a former television anchor he is reportedly seeing.)It is unknown what Ms. Bezos will do next, and how the divorce will play out.There will be inevitable questions, for instance, about her plans regarding philanthropy. The Bezoses’ charitable contributions have been modest in the past. In 2011, they donated $15 million to their alma mater to create a center to study the brain. The following year, they gave $2.5 million to support a same-sex marriage referendum in Washington. In 2017, Mr. Bezos asked his followers on Twitter for ideas about how better to give, and in September he and Ms. Bezos announced a $2 billion fund to help homeless families and start a network of Montessori-inspired preschools. But Ms. Bezos could pave her own philanthropic path, like Laurene Powell Jobs, who started her own foundation, the Emerson Collective.And if Ms. Bezos continues to write and publish, perhaps she could find a more receptive audience among independent booksellers. Some publishing executives, who declined to be quoted on the record, spoke gleefully, at least, of the blockbuster potential if Ms. Bezos decides to write a memoir.Vanessa Friedman and Paul Sullivan contributed reporting. You may not have appreciated it at the time — golden eras have a habit of coming and going like that — but a five-year stretch that started in 2013 was a pretty great time to buy a washing machine. Inflation for home laundry equipment, as measured by the Labor Department, fell steadily during that time, which meant you could buy the same washer your neighbor bought last year for less money. Or you could buy a better one at the same price. Great news for your clothes, though maybe bad news for your friendship, if your neighbor was the covetous type. That stretch of laundry deflation ended last year, shortly after President Trump imposed tariffs, starting at 20 percent, on imported washers. The move was a response to a complaint filed by Whirlpool, a Michigan-based manufacturer. The company has long dominated the washing machine business — many Americans have had Whirlpools in their laundry rooms for decades — but has recently faced stiffer competition from foreign manufacturers. Whirlpool claimed that foreign competitors like LG and Samsung were flooding the appliance market with washing machines from South Korea and Mexico at prices so low that they were hurting American makers. As an effort to help domestic producers, the tariffs worked — very briefly. Whirlpool added 200 jobs at its factory in Clyde, Ohio. Its stock price jumped $20 per share in the first few days after the tariffs took effect. Then things went bad.A year after Mr. Trump announced the tariffs, washing machine prices were up, as many analysts had expected. But that has not been a boon to the makers of washers because fewer Americans are investing in new laundry equipment, exposing how protectionist trade policies can backfire on the very companies they are meant to safeguard. Tariffs of two varieties have pushed prices upThe washer-specific tariffs raised costs for importers like LG and Samsung. But another tariff issued by Mr. Trump, on imported steel, raised costs for some domestic manufacturers like Whirlpool, which took those companies by surprise. Many manufacturers passed those higher costs on to consumers. Once stores worked their way through models that had been imported before tariffs hit, deflation gave way to sharp price increases. After years of steady growth, sales reversed in 2018A basic rule of economics is that when the price of something goes up, people buy less of it. That’s just what happened to washing machines.Data from the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers shows that shipments of washing machines increased by an average of 5 percent a year from 2015 to 2017. Last year, shipments fell 3 percent.Retailers saw that reaction in real time. “We have seen, as you mentioned, tariffs’ impact in laundry,” Craig Menear, the chairman and chief executive of the Home Depot, told analysts on an earnings call in November.Retailers were hurt, but manufacturers were hurt more Washing machines make up a small slice of Home Depot’s business. They’re more important for Whirlpool, Samsung and other manufacturers — and the stocks of those businesses have been hammered this year. Laundry appliances made up nearly 30 percent of Whirlpool’s sales in 2017. The company’s shares gave up their initial gains after the tariffs were announced, and then fell some more.Through the third quarter, Whirlpool’s unit sales were down 2.5 percent in North America, compared with the same period in its previous fiscal year. The company’s executives said in an October earnings call that they expected to be hit by an additional $300 million in cost increases, largely driven by the steel tariff, in the year to come. A Whirlpool spokesman declined to comment, citing a company policy not to talk about continuing trade issues. But the company confirmed it did, in fact, add 200 employees in Ohio.Things should get better in 2019Mr. Trump’s tariff rate on washing machines will drop two percentage points, to 18 percent, this year, which should mildly ease the pressure on companies and consumers. Retailers say they have seen signs that suggest the worst is over: Ted Decker, executive vice president for merchandising at Home Depot, told analysts in November that after several difficult months with washing machines, “our laundry sales and unit productivity is on par, if not slightly better, than the average of our overall appliance business.”The three-month average for laundry equipment inflation peaked in July, at 20 percent. In December, that increase was just 1.6 percent. This makes sense, economically: Tariffs jolted prices upward, but the overall trend in the appliance industry remains downward. If your neighbor bought a new washer last June and you buy the same one this June, there’s a decent chance it will be cheaper.You might not even need to wait that long. Retail websites suggest that if you run out to your local appliance store this weekend, you’re likely to find a bunch of washing machines, American made and imported, on sale. EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Lisa Kerney once earned her living hosting “SportsCenter” on ESPN, making her a nightly fixture in the vast American conversation between sports fans and their favorite athletes, teams and leagues. Her latest endeavor, she believes, is just as all-American.Every Saturday, Kerney slips into the anchor’s chair of a very different kind of television program: a sports betting show from a makeshift studio at the Meadowlands Racetrack. Instead of reporting just scores and news, Kerney now also rattles off N.F.L. point spreads and money-line odds as easily as a CNBC host talks stock prices and P/E ratios.She will be on the air again this Sunday, serving up information on the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams in the hours before Super Bowl LIII. The game will take its place in American gambling history because, for the first time, bettors will be allowed to wager on the N.F.L.’s championship game legally, not only in Nevada but also in seven other states.By next year, gambling may be legal in more than a dozen more states, a shift that is already moving betting on games into the mainstream of American culture and teaching fans to look at the sports contests they love as investment opportunities as well as entertainment.“Now fans are able to play the game within the game,” Kerney said. “It goes beyond the nuts and bolts of who’s going to win. It is a whole new way of experiencing sports.”Last May, when the Supreme Court struck down a federal law that prohibited expanded sports gambling, it created — almost overnight — a billion-dollar market that bookmakers, media companies, tech entrepreneurs, touts and quants have rushed in to dominate.On the high end, that has meant sports shows that incorporate into their coverage market-moving information like injury reports and their effect on bettors. But it also means digital subscription services that make a tsunami of sports data available, and app makers eager to help bettors slice it.On the retail front, the innovations have been more basic: how-to-bet sports camps, cable shows that explain the difference between a proposition and parlay bets, and Nevada-based tout services — which for decades have picked winners for a price — that have suddenly refashioned themselves into media companies.“If you have a way to make betting more fun, or to otherwise increase consumer investment in betting, the market needs you,” said Chris Grove, a managing director at Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, an independent research firm. “If you have a way to salve any of the pain points for consumers in the regulated sports betting — the learning curve, hassles with payments, ensuring that you’re getting the price — then the market absolutely needs you.”As sports betting and bills are being shepherded through legislatures in at least 15 other states, the early returns show there is plenty of opportunity in what is a familiar but nascent industry. In New Jersey, for example, sportsbooks at Meadowlands Racetrack and their online counterparts have handled more than $1.2 billion in wagers since the market was born in mid-June, despite having only three brick-and-mortar outlets in the early going and no availability for online wagering until August. If retail and online wagering were to become accessible in all 50 states, Eilers & Krejcik predicted, sports betting in America could become a $16 billion industry.Figures from regulators in Mississippi and Rhode Island also show an upward trend. New Jersey is on pace to surpass Nevada in sports wagering. And though market oversaturation could eventually slow or halt the industry’s rapid growth, that is not a pressing concern.Legalized sports betting has already changed the way some fans consume sports. This month, NBC Sports Washington Plus, a regional sports network, offered an alternate telecast of several Washington Wizards games, starting with one against the Milwaukee Bucks, that looked like a cross between CNBC and ESPNews. Unlike most N.B.A. telecasts, the productions included statistics, odds and point spreads alongside the live action. It was a preview of what game telecasts may look like in a mature sports betting landscape.In two years, the Las Vegas-based Vegas Stats & Information Network (VSiN) has grown from a start-up streaming service with 1.4 million visitors to 12.6 million visitors a month — across video and audio streams like Sirius XM and fuboTV — seeking “actionable information” delivered by a roster of Las Vegas bookmakers and professional gamblers, including the longtime CBS broadcaster Brent Musburger.The Super Bowl, though, has been an integral part of America’s sporting fabric and a highlight of the betting year since long before the Supreme Court’s ruling last year made it legal in more jurisdictions.Last year, for example, $159 million was bet on the Super Bowl legally in Nevada, a respectable take for any business but one that paled in comparison to the estimates of the amount — as high as $4.6 billion — wagered on the game illegally. This year, with eight states now offering legal sports betting, projections for wagering on Sunday’s Super Bowl LIII have risen to more than $325 million, according to PlayUSA, which monitors the legal sports market. That haul is expected to soar as more states bring betting on games out of the realm of corner-bar bookies and offshore operators and onto their tax rolls.At the same time, the popularity of fantasy sports and the growing amounts of easily accessible data and analytics have not merely hastened the acceptance of sports betting: They have transformed the nature of fandom.“This is a generational thing, and what we’ve seen is a perfect storm develop over the last 20 years, with a boom in fantasy sports, the interest in ‘moneyball’ and the democracy of information through technology,” said Chad Millman, the chief content officer at The Action Network, a subscriber-based media company. “It’s meant that fans have become more opportunistic about their fandom. They think about winning individually, not about rooting for a team.”The Action Network runs a website and an app offering data, research and betting tools, as well as general coverage of sports and the nuances of cashing in on them. It also produces a betting show — called “I’ll Take That Bet” — for ESPN+, the sports broadcaster’s new streaming platform.Millman would not say how many subscribers the Action Network has in its first year, but since April, he said, users of the company’s app have logged 13 million bets, and the circulation of the Action Network’s email newsletter has grown nearly tenfold, to 240,000.“In general, sports fans want to be smarter than their friends,” Millman said. “As sports betting becomes more and more part of the conversation, people are trying to figure out what the language of it is.”For now at least, there is a difference between a general sports audience and sports betting audience, a gap Kerney, the former “SportsCenter” anchor, is trying to navigate on her show, created by the bookmaker FanDuel, from the Meadowlands.“Most sports bettors will notice every second on or off the clock, every yard, every pitch, every shot, because any of these can ultimately affect their bets,” said Kevin Grigsby, the show’s executive producer. “So your story, programming, messaging needs narrative that caters to both cohorts.”Kerney and Grigsby’s bosses at FanDuel are making a big bet that they can close that gap quickly. FanDuel is owned by the European bookmakers Paddy Power, as is TVG, the cable network that is home to Kerney’s show. TVG reaches 40 million homes and gives horseplayers wall-to-wall coverage of races that they can bet on through a proprietary website or app. As sports betting expands, TVG is poised to also expand programming like Kerney’s show. FanDuel already takes bets on all sports.With a more than half-century head start on legalized betting, European bookmakers handled more than $13 billion in wagers in 2018, according to Eilers & Krejcik. That is a number Paddy Power and other bookmakers expect the United States market to surpass in as few as five to seven years.“The biggest advantage we have right now is that the leagues, the networks, or me and you don’t have to pretend anymore that there are not hundreds of millions of dollars bet every day on the games we follow,” Kerney said. “We are here to educate and inform but also to become an authority in this space. If we do our jobs, we believe people who follow us will make money.”The partners in Beer Run — a compact, well-stocked new source for beer-buying and drinking — have a natural feel for the business. John Hyun was an assistant brewer at Peekskill Brewery upstate and knows his craft beers. So does his partner, Larry Good, who owns two restaurants with beer-drinking audiences, Toast and The Heights near Columbia University. Enter their narrow Chelsea store, and you’ll find bottled beers on shelves, though most of the inventory is in cans refrigerated and grouped according to style, like I.P.A., saison, wheat and so forth. Ciders, too. In the rear of the store is a bar where a dozen beers, often local and changing daily, are dispensed on tap. A few wines are also poured.Beer Run, 203 West 19th Street (Seventh Avenue), 212-749-7500, beerrun.nyc. Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Peter Magowan, who in 1992 — decades after he had watched the New York Giants play at the Polo Grounds as a boy — led a group that bought the team to keep it from relocating to Florida from San Francisco, died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 76.His wife, Deborah, confirmed his death. Mr. Magowan had liver and prostate cancer and had had a liver transplant.Mr. Magowan had been the chief executive of Safeway Stores, the nation’s largest supermarket chain, when Bob Lurie, the Giants’ owner, made a deal with investors in the St. Petersburg-Tampa area in August 1992 to move the team there. Very quickly, a group of local investors, led by Mr. Magowan, assembled a $100 million bid to keep the team in San Francisco, where the Giants had moved from New York 35 years earlier.To Mr. Magowan, the possibility of the team fleeing his adopted hometown was as unfathomable as the departure of the Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers, who moved to Los Angeles, had been.“I don’t think Brooklyn has recovered to this day,” Mr. Magowan told The San Francisco Chronicle in 2000.When National League owners voted, 9-4, to reject the Giants’ move, Mr. Magowan’s group was free to acquire them.Under Mr. Magowan, who was the team’s managing general partner for nearly 16 years, the Giants’ image was recast. In late 1992 he signed the superstar slugger Barry Bonds to a six-year, $43.75 million contract, then the richest in baseball history. He brought back Willie Mays, the franchise’s incandescent superstar, in a lifetime role — he had not had a formal position with the team since before he retired in 1973 — and other former players returned in various capacities.Mr. Magowan’s most significant achievement was building Pacific Bell Park (now called Oracle Park), a waterfront stadium that replaced windy, decrepit Candlestick Park, the team’s home since 1960. Most owners of sports teams demand public money to finance their stadiums and arenas; in contrast, Mr. Magowan used private funds after local voters had rejected four referendums that would have given public funding to the team’s previous owner, Mr. Lurie.“We needed to do it in San Francisco,” he told The Chronicle in 2003. “The public had spoken four times that they did not want a publicly financed stadium.”Pacific Bell Park, which opened in 2000, has quirky dimensions and unusual features like McCovey Cove, a body of water beyond the right-field wall where boaters race to retrieve home run balls. It is named for Willie McCovey, the Giants’ longtime Hall of Fame first baseman, who died last year.The stadium has become a baseball mecca: Attendance peaked at 3.39 million in 2011 and has fallen below three million only twice in 19 seasons. The management team Mr. Magowan oversaw before retiring in 2008 as managing general partner helped produce World Series championships in 2010, 2012 and 2014.“He had a wonderful approach to business and life: He’d say, ‘Let’s make 100 decisions a week and get 87 of them right,’ ” Laurence Baer, the team’s president and chief executive, said in a telephone interview on Monday. “Everything he did — saving the team from moving, the ballpark, signing Bonds — was about taking risks.”Peter Alden Magowan was born on April 5, 1942, in Manhattan. His mother, Doris (Merrill) Magowan, was a daughter of Charles Merrill, a founder of the Merrill Lynch brokerage firm. His father, Robert, worked at Merrill Lynch before he joined Safeway Stores in the early 1950s and took over as chairman in 1955. Mr. Merrill had been a large investor in Safeway and recommended that Robert Magowan become the chain’s chief executive.Peter was listening to the radio at school on Oct. 3, 1951, when the Giants third baseman Bobby Thomson hit the ninth-inning home run in a playoff game against the Dodgers that propelled the Giants to the World Series.When he got home, his father had a better story to tell about Thomson’s home run, which came to be known as “the Shot Heard Round the World.”“Guess where I’ve been today?” Robert Magowan said, according to an account given by Peter Magowan to The Daily News in 1993.The elder Magowan had been to the game with three businessmen, who left before the ninth inning had started.“Let that be a lesson to you,” he recalled his father telling him. “Don’t ever give up.”Peter’s path to Safeway was indirect. He earned a bachelor’s degree in American literature at Stanford University and a master’s in politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford University in England before finishing two years of undergraduate work at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Baltimore. But his education, and two summers at the State Department, did not provide the direction he wanted.So he went to work for Safeway, where he was a checker, shelf stocker and produce clerk before being given greater responsibility as a store manager, district manager, retail operations manager and regional vice president. At 37, he became Safeway’s chairman and chief executive.In an incident that became central to Mr. Magowan’s tenure at Safeway, he fended off a hostile takeover bid in 1986 from the Dart Group Corporation by agreeing to a $4.25 billion leveraged buyout from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company. The buyout left Safeway’s management in place but saddled the company with enormous debt; it eventually eliminated 63,000 jobs.“It was tough on all the workers, including me,” he told The Chronicle in 2003. “We went through a lot of stress.”Mr. Magowan is survived by his wife, Deborah (Johnston) Magowan; his daughters, Kimberley, Margot and Hilary Magowan and Kristen Butt; a son, Matthew Cook; 13 grandchildren; and his brothers, Robin, Merrill and Mark. His first marriage, to Jill Tarlau, ended in divorce.While Mr. Magowan described the acquisition of Barry Bonds, who broke Major League Baseball’s career home run record as a Giant, as his best business decision, suspicions that Bonds used steroids have shadowed him and the team for years. When questioned by George J. Mitchell, the former United States senator who was investigating the use of performance-enhancing drugs for Major League Baseball, Mr. Magowan said Bonds had told him he had taken substances that he later learned were illegal.But two days later, a lawyer for Mr. Magowan told Mr. Mitchell that he had misspoken and could recall only that Bonds had said he had not knowingly taken steroids.Mr. Magowan elaborated in 2016, telling The Chronicle: “I didn’t see what I was supposed to see, and I’m sorry for that. People say, ‘Why didn’t you know Barry was taking steroids?’ I say, ‘I don’t know. I still don’t know.’ What am I supposed to do, go in his locker and see if there’s a steroid bottle?”Like most wealthy businessmen who buy sports teams, Mr. Magowan became known more for his ownership of the Giants than for his management of Safeway. His success in turning the Giants into a model franchise earned him induction into the Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame in 2016. Just last week, the Giants announced that he would be honored on Feb. 9 with a bronze plaque on the team’s Wall of Fame.Good Tuesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.U.S. charges Huawei with theft and sanctions evasionThe Justice Department partly unsealed a pair of indictments yesterday that accuse the Chinese telecommunications firm of trying to steal trade secrets, evade economic sanctions on Iran and obstruct a criminal investigation into its behavior.The context: The charges come as officials from Beijing and Washington prepare to continue trade negotiations and as the Trump administration tries to shoulder Huawei out of international efforts to build the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G. The company has denied the claims; a spokesman for China’s industry and information technology ministry called them “unfair and immoral.”The allegations: The U.S. says that Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer and the daughter of its founder, Ren Zhengfei, participated in a plot to defraud four large banks into clearing millions of dollars in transactions with Iran in violation of international sanctions. American officials say that Huawei tried to impede their investigation by destroying evidence and by moving employees out of the U.S. to prevent them from being called as witnesses. The company, prosecutors say, also stole information about a phone-testing robot called Tappy from T-Mobile facilities in Washington state and encouraged employees to steal other confidential information from competitors.What now: Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, said that the U.S. government wants to have Ms. Meng extradited from Canada, where she was detained last year at Washington’s request and where officials are now on tricky political turf trying to balance American and Chinese interests. The tussle has the industry on edge; an internal assessment from Deutsche Telekom concluded that the 5G rollout in Europe would be delayed by at least two years and cost billions of euros if governments banned Huawei, whose technology underpins much of the current network infrastructure.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Throwing a wrench into trade talks with ChinaThe Huawei charges will complicate negotiations on Wednesday that were already expected to be tense.A delegation of dozens of Chinese representatives led by Vice Premier Liu He will meet near the White House with a group headed by Robert Lighthizer, President Trump’s top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the treasury secretary. On Thursday, Mr. Liu is expected to meet with Mr. Trump.Mr. Mnuchin said there had been “significant movement” on talks that involved “very complicated issues,” including intellectual property protections and questions of enforcement. The Chinese may offer to increase their purchases of U.S. farm products and energy, and slightly change their industrial policies, while pushing back on demands to eliminate subsidies to favored industries.The parties have until early March to reach an agreement, or else risk an escalation in the trade conflict.Mr. Trump is being pressured by the markets and the corporate sector to deliver a deal. A recent survey found that his trade policies had led more than a third of American manufacturers to raise prices. Yesterday, the chip maker Nvidia and the bulldozer builder Caterpillar both issued warnings about business conditions in China.As Eswar Prasad, the former head of the International Monetary Fund’s China division, notes:“The damaging economic effects of the shutdown and Trump’s desire to score a cleaner win at least on trade could also make U.S. negotiators somewhat more flexible and willing to strike a deal.”The aftershocks of the shutdownThe five weeks when much of the government was out of commission cost the U.S. economy $11 billion, nearly a quarter of it permanently lost, the Congressional Budget Office said yesterday.That’s nearly double the $5.7 billion President Trump is seeking for a southern border wall — a project he still wants and is still threatening to shut down the government to get.The damage will be mitigated somewhat as furloughed workers start to receive their back pay, but with the government only funded for three weeks, many federal employees plan to hold off on spending.Here’s another wrinkle: Government statisticians just now returning to work are behind on collecting and analyzing figures on retail sales, manufacturing data, housing statistics and other information. Investors, executives and analysts nervous about signs of weakness in the economy are grasping for details about the labor market, inflation and business spending. And when the Federal Reserve’s policymaking group meets starting today, it will be missing some of its customary guides.Howard Schultz defends his plan to run as an independentHoward Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, told Andrew yesterday that he was not fazed by criticism that his potential presidential bid as an independent could strengthen President Trump’s chances for re-election.“Nobody wants to see Donald Trump removed from office more than me,” Mr. Schultz said at an event in a Barnes & Noble bookstore in New York to kick off his national book tour.Responding to critics: Mr. Trump said in an early morning tweet that Mr. Schultz did not have the “guts” to run, a taunt that Mr. Schultz called “childish.” Michael Bloomberg, another possible presidential contender, condemned independent bids.Hecklers in the crowd: “Don’t help elect Trump,” yelled one protester, who was escorted out of the event in New York. Mr. Schultz was interrupted a second time by a man who chanted, “Health care is a human right.”More: Bill Burton, a former adviser to President Barack Obama, pushed back against criticism over his decision to join Mr. Schultz’s team. And the harsh response on social media to a potential Schultz candidacy could affect the Starbucks brand, according to the Washington Post.Ghosn’s plight reveals a pattern in JapanCarlos Ghosn, the global auto chief indicted on charges of financial wrongdoing, remains consigned to a small cell after a Tokyo court again denied his bail request. His predicament has turned a spotlight on the Japanese criminal justice system, writes the NYT’s Motoko Rich:The lawyers can detain defendants for more than three weeks before bringing charges, arrest suspects multiple times to extend their detention and interrogate them without their counsel.Some in the West have reacted strongly to the power that prosecutors have wielded. “This is an approach to the rights of accused people that one would expect in a dictatorship, not in Japan,” one critic wrote.Revolving DoorBlackBerry named Bryan Palma, a senior vice president at Cisco, as its chief operating officer and president. (MarketWatch)The Speed ReadDeals• Unilever acquired the Laundress, a New York-based line of premium cleaning products, as it tries to bolster its high-end home care products. (Reuters)• Edward Lampert, the Sears chairman, says his bid for the retailer will make the company competitive and profitable again, but experts say there’s more to it. (CNN)• Two House panels will hold a joint hearing on Feb. 13 on the proposed merger between T-Mobile and Sprint. (Reuters)• Joe Kaeser, the chief executive of Siemens, said the European Union might be right in blocking his company’s planned rail merger with Alstom. (Bloomberg)• Dropbox agreed to acquire HelloSign, an e-signature software company, for $230 million in cash. (Bloomberg)Politics and Policy• After a long back-and-forth, Speaker Nancy Pelosi invited President Trump to deliver the State of the Union address on Feb. 5. (NYT)• The special counsel Robert Mueller is close to finishing his investigation, Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, announced in a highly unusual confirmation of the state of the inquiry. (NYT)• The Trump administration imposed economic penalties on Venezuela, a punitive step to add to the pressure on President Nicolás Maduro to resign. (NYT)• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain is to present Parliament with an amended version of her Brexit deal today, but the public seems to be tiring of the apparently interminable saga. (CNBC)Tech• A glitch in FaceTime, Apple’s video and audio calling app, allows iPhone users to eavesdrop on others. (NYT)• The letter that forced Travis Kalanick out of Uber was among a series of files that were unsealed as part of a lawsuit over trade secrets brought by Alphabet’s Waymo. (Bloomberg)• Less than four months after Elon Musk settled fraud charges over his claims that Saudi Arabia was ready to back a buyout of Tesla, the kingdom has hedged most of its 4.9 percent stake in the company to protect against stock price volatility. (FT)• As the money-losing Snap tries to lure and keep users, its Snapchat app is considering what was once unthinkable: permanent posts. (Reuters)Best of the Rest• The California utility Pacific Gas & Electric filed for bankruptcy protection in anticipation of billions of dollars in liability claims for two years of wildfires. (NYT)• Wynn Resorts reached a proposed settlement with Nevada regulators over claims that its executives ignored sexual misconduct claims against Steve Wynn. (WSJ)• A lawyer for John Kapoor, the founder and former chairman of Insys Therapeutics, denied in court that he had any role in the U.S. opioid crisis. (Reuters)• Corporate debt loads have been growing, but household borrowing less so — and that could keep economies from tipping into recession. (WSJ)• Investing in utilities, once seen as safe, boring and modestly profitable, is now considered riskier and more exciting, because of alternative energy, global warming and natural disasters. (Bloomberg)• Andrea Orcel left UBS to join Santander as its chief executive, but then the offer was rescinded because of a compensation dispute. Now he is said to be preparing a legal fight. (FT)• American International Group, the insurance conglomerate, says it is 100 years old. Maurice Greenberg, its former chief executive, disagrees. (WSJ)• Peloton, which sells a high-tech exercise bike for roughly $2,000, is being roasted on social media for the ostentatious symbols of wealth in its most recent ad campaign. (FastCo)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Wednesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Good Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Huawei and China’s role in 5GThe next generation of computer and phone networks, known as 5G, is expected to connect cities around the world and fuel a future run on robots, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence and other technologies.But it may also rely on an infrastructure vulnerable to hackers and spies, one that the U.S. wants to stop China from building.The Trump administration has conducted a campaign to pressure allies such as Britain, Poland and Germany to banish Chinese companies, especially the telecommunications giant Huawei, from participating in the 5G buildup, according to the NYT:The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.What’s next? President Trump is expected to issue an executive order prohibiting American companies from incorporating equipment originating from China in critical telecommunications networks, extending current rules that apply only to government entities. His administration, which has also waged a trade war with China, says that it is motivated by concern for national security, not just by competitive defensiveness. China’s economic czar, Liu He, will meet with the American trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, in Washington on Wednesday for two days of trade talks, which is likely to cover issues of cyberprotection and the proliferation of state-owned companies.What do officials think? Beijing’s ambassador to the E.U. threatened “serious consequences” if Huawei and other Chinese companies were excluded from 5G projects. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau fired the country’s ambassador to China after he said that a senior Huawei executive had “strong arguments” to fight extradition to the U.S.And businesses? Tech manufacturers are diversifying outside China as trade tensions fester and the country’s economy slows. Foxconn and Pegatron, two Taiwanese companies that assemble iPhones, are expanding production capacity in India and Vietnam. American industrial companies with exposure to China have said that their sales there are weakening. But Apple is unlikely to bring production closer to the U.S., where manufacturers struggle to “match China’s combination of scale, skills, infrastructure and cost,” according to the NYT.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Promotions at elite law firm stir diversity debateThe law firm Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But after the announcement of its new partner class, people across the industry began to comment that all of the faces were white, and that only one was a woman’s, the NYT’s Noam Scheiber and John Eligon write.Paul, Weiss has said that it regretted the “gender and racial imbalance” of its 2019 class. But the episode underscores how big law firms are still falling short when it comes to elevating women and people of color.Mr. Scheiber and Mr. Eligon interviewed more than 20 women and people of color who described obstacles to achieving diversity at Paul, Weiss. Many said that opportunities to be groomed for partner were harder to come by for women and minorities.“I fear that African-American partners in big law are becoming an endangered species,” said Theodore Wells, a black partner at Paul, Weiss and one of the country’s most prominent litigators.Howard Schultz lays groundwork for presidential bidThe former chief executive of Starbucks told Andrew yesterday that he was preparing to run for president in 2020 as an independent.Denouncing the “broken political system,” Mr. Schultz said he had already begun the groundwork to get on the ballot in all 50 states.Long-shot bid: Despite his considerable wealth, Mr. Schultz would face a difficult road. Few independent candidates have mounted significant challenges for the White House.Political jabs: In an interview with “60 Minutes,” Mr. Schultz said Donald Trump was “not qualified to be the president” and that lawmakers from both parties were engaged in “revenge politics.”Swift response: The announcement was condemned by top Democratic operatives, who said they were worried that Mr. Schultz would split votes in a general election.As Lyft’s I.P.O. nears, pressure grows on its C.E.O.Logan Green, the chief executive of Lyft, is known to be reserved, usually letting his second-in-command speak for their ride-sharing service. But now, he’s in a race with Uber to take the companies public, write the NYT’s Mike Isaac and Kate Conger.That means Mr. Green may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role.The back story: Both Lyft and Uber have filed regulatory papers to list their shares on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings are likely to create a bonanza in Silicon Valley.Why it matters: Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.Markets await earnings, Fed guidance and the jobs reportStocks sank at the end of last year on fears of an imminent recession, but those concerns have largely abated, with global markets now rallying at the fastest pace in months. But investors are still cautious ahead of a busy week.The next few days bring an onslaught of quarterly earnings reports from the likes of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Tesla — many of which are considered to be representative of the broader economy. The Federal Reserve is also holding policy meetings this week, which come after central banks in Europe and Japan sounded cautious notes. And on Friday, the monthly U.S. jobs report will be released.The world economy “is not in crisis,” writes Neil Irwin. But, he adds:What the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The work force is still aging. Productivity growth remains weak, as is consumer demand. Low interest rates could constrain central bankers trying to engineer an escape from a downturn. And a “nasty feedback loop” could result in more political dysfunction, leading to risks of economic disruption like the type posed by the recent government shutdown.Speaking of which: After a 35-day stalemate, the government is open again, much to the chagrin of some of President Trump’s conservative supporters. The 116th Congress will consider Democratic wage proposals in the house and a Middle East policy bill in the Senate. Lawmakers may also consider whether to ban future shutdowns entirely. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees heading back to work should receive back pay by the end of the week.Revolving doorYi Huiman, the chairman of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, will take over from Liu Shiyu as the party secretary and chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. (Reuters)Lance Milken, son of Michael Milken, has left the private equity group Apollo Global Managemen to set up a family office. (FT)Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer outside China, said Jean-Pierre Thomas had resigned as its chairman and director as part of a deal with the U.S. government to lift sanctions on the company and on other Russian firms linked to the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. (Reuters)The speed readDeals• The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federally chartered body, says a $1.7 billion funding gap should sink the efforts of the Sears chairman, Edward Lampert, to buy out the retail chain. The move makes the corporation the latest and most influential creditor to oppose the sale. (WSJ)• The chemical companies Versum Materials and Entegris are in advanced talks to combine into a single entity that makes products used in the semiconductor manufacturing process. (WSJ)• The engineering group Rolls-Royce is leading a consortium of companies that is said to have asked the British government for more than $260 million to build small nuclear reactors. (FT)• Saudi Aramco wants to increase its foothold in Asia’s oil industry by buying up to 19.9 percent of the South Korean refiner Hyundai Oilbank. (Reuters)• The Italian energy company Eni and its Austrian peer OMV will pay $5.8 billion for a stake in the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company’s refining business. (Reuters)Tech• Kik Interactive, a Canadian social-media start-up that sold $100 million in a digital token it called “kin,” plans to fight the S.E.C. over the agency’s regulation of cryptocurrencies. (WSJ)• All aboard the driverless train: American rail-freight operators are turning to automation to make railroads safer and more productive. (WSJ)• The struggles of bike-sharing start-ups lay bare the flaws of VC2C, or venture capital to consumer, a common tech investment strategy in China. In VC2C, companies raise funds, use them to subsidize consumers, and ramp up prices later. (FT)• Retailers have used robots to handle inventory in warehouses. Now, they’re testing whether robots can figure out when store shelves need to be restocked. (WSJ)Politics and policy• A sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers’ refund checks, and delay them, too. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren is trying to stand out in an increasingly crowded field of presidential candidates by focusing on policy minutiae. But she risks being seen as out-of-touch, too intellectual and offbeat. (NYT)• With less than nine weeks to go until Brexit, British businesses are setting up emergency teams to cope with possible upheaval as they press politicians to agree on an orderly exit plan from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Male managers said that they were nervous about mentoring female colleagues in the #MeToo era. (NYT)• The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing whether Nissan accurately reported executive pay. (NYT)• Signs that the government may move to privatize the mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sent shares soaring. (WSJ)• The Man Group hedge fund cut ties with the Booker Prize, saying it would dedicate donations to improving diversity in financial services instead. (FT)• U.S. manufacturers are taking a hit as Chinese demand for American goods weakens. (WSJ)• Workplace confidentiality rules in New Jersey are being challenged in court. (WSJ)• Qantas Airways customers are requesting exercise bikes and virtual reality devices to pass the time on 20-hour flights from Sydney to London. (Reuters)• Vale, the world’s largest iron ore miner, suspended dividends, buybacks and bonuses after a dam disaster in Brazil. (Reuters)• The two chief executives of Standard Life Aberdeen, Britain’s largest listed fund manager, made a case for joint leadership, a model unpopular with many investors and governance specialists. (FT)• The British supermarket chain Tesco is planning to cut thousands of jobs with the closing of meat, fish and delicatessen counters. (Guardian)• The U.S. Treasury Department is set to borrow $1 trillion for a second year to finance the deficit. (Bloomberg)• The English soccer club Arsenal announced plans to open several themed restaurants in China as part of a marketing push to reach fans there. (FT)• The European Commission is preparing to put Saudi Arabia on a list of countries that have failed to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.CHICAGO — On Day 1 of what would become the longest government shutdown in the country’s history, Mary Kelly had a typically American view of the situation: She was optimistic. As an employee of the Internal Revenue Service, she had been through shutdowns before. This one would not last long, she figured.On Day 24, weeks into her mandatory furlough, she applied for unemployment benefits.Ten days after that, she left her home in the Chicago suburbs, rode a train downtown and joined demonstrators on a windswept Federal Plaza, her cheeks mottled pink from the cold.“I was never scared during shutdowns in the past,” Ms. Kelly, a union officer, said during the protest on Thursday, wearing woolen gloves and clutching a sign. “But now who knows what’s going to happen?”And then on Day 35, with no resolution seemingly in sight, she had her answer in news leaked from Washington: The shutdown was finally coming to an end.“I’m waiting with bated breath,” she said on Friday, glued to her phone for bulletins that congressional leaders and President Trump had reached a deal to temporarily reopen the government. “Hopefully we’ll get a paycheck out of it.”When the partial government shutdown began at midnight on Dec. 22, it left about 800,000 federal employees out of work, with many continuing to show up at their jobs even without the prospect of immediate paychecks. In the beginning, the episode was easily shrugged off as another Washington dysfunction: the result of an impetuous president making an outsize demand for a border wall, a dispute fueled by partisan bickering and likely to wrap up in a few days.Initial nonchalance gave way to worry. Worry gave way to panic. And before it ended in Mr. Trump’s retreat from an insistence on wall funding nearly six weeks after it began, the government shutdown rapidly reordered American life.It showed how far the tentacles of the federal government reach into ordinary lives around the nation, and how even the richest country on Earth could be one domestic crisis away from bread lines. And it may not be final yet, government workers reminded themselves even as they celebrated, as the three-week deal does not preclude another impasse.Although over for now, the shutdown inflicted pain that ran deep.Stunned middle-class people were forced to moonlight, visit food pantries for groceries and apply for unemployment benefits. A stable government job suddenly felt high risk.Some of the federal employees who went unpaid for weeks missed mortgage payments, piled up credit card debt and worried about financial doom.Back pay will make most government workers whole again, but the deal cannot undo all the effects. Many business owners who rely on government workers saw their profits dry up. Many people saw their credit ratings nose-dive. Full of shutdown stress, many saw their marriages fray and noticed as their anxieties were transferred to their children.The shutdown revealed unflattering truths about Americans’ finances: Even neighbors and friends with steady paychecks and the markers of comfortable lives were suddenly surviving hand-to-mouth, teetering on the edge of despair.“I have to come here and see people who are homeless and who biked here, as I’m pulling up in my Subaru,” said Jenny Lunsted, a mother of two and the wife of an unpaid petty officer with the United States Coast Guard, who browsed shelves of canned pumpkin and fresh tomatoes at a food pantry in Stock Island, Fla., on Tuesday. “It’s heartbreaking because you feel almost unworthy and embarrassed at the same time.”The effects cascaded far beyond the plight of individual workers, attracting the attention of Americans oblivious to the outsize role the government plays in their lives.Federal agencies stalled projects. Plane crashes went uninvestigated. Research studies were deferred. A shortage of air traffic controllers caused flight delays across the Northeast on Friday, snarling air travel at some of the country’s busiest airports.A lack of workers left some of the country’s most treasured sites in a state of neglect. That included Yosemite National Park, the place the pioneering naturalist John Muir described as a temple of canyons, rushing waterfalls and sun-streaked granite cliffs.Because of the shutdown, the park was “hanging by a thread,” said Ken Yager, 59, a professional climber who came to Yosemite more than four decades ago and never left the area.All but a skeleton crew of rangers at the park were furloughed, the visitor center was closed and no one answered the phone at the park headquarters. Nearby, the towns that rely on Yosemite tourism for their livelihoods were hurting. Mr. Yager, who runs a cleaning service, laid off most of his employees.Every day the shutdown stretched on, Mr. Yager said, people were “more and more desperate.”It has been more than six weeks since the blustery Oval Office confrontation on Dec. 11 between Mr. Trump and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader.Mr. Trump, reiterating his campaign pledge to build a border wall, had said he would take the blame for shutting down the government if Democrats rebuffed his effort. “I will take the mantle,” he said in a vow that was replayed on cable news countless times. “I will be the one to shut it down.”And it did shut down, in the early morning of Dec. 22. The shuttered departments included Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, Interior, State, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Commerce and Justice. More than 420,000 federal employees began to work without pay; another 380,000 were furloughed to wait for a resolution from home.Yet the notion of a government shutdown still felt to many like a familiar political ritual rather than a fear-inducing event, at least at first. This shutdown marked at least the 21st time in the last four decades that the government has not passed some form of a spending bill on time.In the first days and weeks, a tangle of complications began to emerge.Sheila Bailey, 73, had set her retirement for Dec. 31, after working for 34 years as a scientist at NASA’s John H. Glenn Research Center in Cleveland. And indeed, the date came and went, and Ms. Bailey is spending her days at home.But she found herself in an unusual limbo: She was not sure if she was a federal worker on furlough or a retired federal worker.“It’s just incredible all the complications,” she said, talking of the difficulties of signing up for Medicare Part B when she could not get the necessary paperwork from NASA. “It’s a mess.”The shutdown’s effects even came over the airwaves, in one case in the form of an off-color word. At a community radio station in Kentucky, a host accidentally played an Alanis Morissette song with an obscenity in it. The station director pointed out that, given a shutdown, the Federal Communications Commission was unlikely to be fielding complaints.In Southern California, Joseph Darling, 33, is a member of an elite federal firefighting crew that uses chain saws and hand tools to attack the nation’s wildfires. He would normally spend this time of year clearing away brush to help diminish future fire danger.But during the shutdown, he was not permitted to do that. Instead, he was confined to his office, waiting to be called to an emergency. “We’re ultimately missing those windows of opportunity,” Mr. Darling said this past week. He could not say that the shutdown would cause a fire to break out, but he could not rule out the possibility that the risk of fire had risen because of the bureaucratic standoff.On Jan. 11, three weeks into the shutdown, the consequences became very real to federal employees as many missed their first paycheck.Johnny Zuagar, 39, of Upper Marlboro, Md., has worked for the Census Bureau for 15 years as a statistician dealing with monthly retail sales reports. At home without a job to report to, he was now dealing with his own finances.“You have got to have food, and you have got to have gas in the car, and your kids still need stuff,” Mr. Zuagar said. “It might take them a while to come get the house, so you work with the mortgage company.”Critical to getting through the shutdown, Mr. Zuagar said, was putting all of that day’s anxiety behind him by late afternoon, when he picked up his boys — ages 8, 6 and 1.Tiarra Carey, an accountant with the Department of Homeland Security, began to trim household expenses. Her older children — ages 13, 11, 8 and 3 — quickly discovered that life had changed. They were used to stopping at Chick-fil-A or going ice skating. Ms. Carey said they could no longer afford that kind of thing.For contract workers, the situation became especially dire. Unlike federal employees, contract workers are not guaranteed back pay. Voyt Quinn, 55, typically empties trash cans at the National Zoo in Washington, D.C., earning $13.55 an hour. But when the zoo closed, Mr. Quinn found himself home, racking his brain about how to make ends meet.His employer, Friends of the National Zoo, gave him a small loan to live on. But he will have to pay it back, little by little. He tried to earn some extra money making food deliveries.In Gainesville, Fla., the Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network struggled to provide its usual services, particularly essential in a place where domestic violence is a dominant problem; in the region, there are about 1,700 arrests annually on charges for such crimes. About 35 percent of the organization’s yearly budget comes from federal dollars.For some government workers, the shutdown did not leave them struggling to make ends meet. But it caused other frustrations.Amy Butler, a contractor, is one of the federal government’s experts on the polar vortex, the giant mass of cold air that normally is contained above the North Pole by strong bands of circulating winds, but which can wreak havoc on North American weather when those winds weaken.This year, the polar vortex broke apart days after the shutdown began. Ms. Butler, like other researchers, could not access government databases, so she was effectively blocked from weighing in on internal government debates and putting out analysis during a weather event of huge significance to their jobs and research.“It’s disappointing when there is an event which I feel I’m an expert in, but I can’t share my own work during it because I’m not able to access those resources,” she said.Some families in which both spouses work for the government had to give up two salaries. In Anniston, Ala., Marlin Kimbrough and Kimberly Askew-Kimbrough had a somber conversation with their teenage son about the hardship caused by the shutdown.Tuesday was his birthday. This year, he had to skip gifts and a party.“It hurts the heart, it hurts your feelings,” said Ms. Askew-Kimbrough, who like her husband works at the federal prison in Talladega, Ala. “Thank God that our son is the type of person that understands. I’m quite sure he still feels hurt by it. But he doesn’t wear it on his shoulder.”The White House had asked agency leaders to deliver a list of programs that would suffer if the shutdown continued until March and April, The Washington Post reported this past week. To federal employees on the cusp of losing a second paycheck, the idea that the shutdown could go on that long was unbearable.And in recent days, some furloughed federal workers decided they had had enough. Unions representing air traffic controllers, pilots and flight attendants warned that the shutdown was making air travel less safe. A group of federal employees gathered in the Hart Senate Office Building in Washington on Wednesday, standing in silent protest for 33 minutes — one minute for each day they had been out of work.On Friday, as Mr. Trump spoke from the Rose Garden to announce he had agreed to reopen the government, Americans watched, relieved and elated.It was finally over, at least for a few weeks.In western Wisconsin, Kelly Harris had spent two years in financial purgatory — paying off debts and fixing her credit — to qualify for a federal loan program that helps low-income residents of rural areas become homeowners. The money came through. She moved in with her 15-year-old grandson. It was a dream.But because of the shutdown, she missed her first mortgage payment, due on Jan. 21.Ms. Harris, 55, said the Department of Agriculture offices that handle her mortgage closed before she could get her account number and other basic information about how to pay. She tried calling federal offices, her bank, her senators. Nobody could tell her where to send the check.“I worked so hard to get into this house,” she said. “For me to miss a payment is heart-wrenching.”The thought of defaulting on the home made her sick with worry. She had a 10-day grace period, which was quickly ticking by. She said she had no idea what to do.On Friday, she broke down crying when she heard the news that the White House and congressional leaders had reached a deal.“I am just sitting here bawling,” she said. She said she planned to call her loan officer as soon as she could on Monday, just in the nick of time. “Relief,” she said. “Absolute relief.”A U.P.S. driver once said the house set his delivery record: 32 packages in one day. There have been bigger days since, and the burden is now spread across three carriers. Most of it falls to the local postal carriers. They used to make the rounds in a sedan until the sheer volume of packages delivered up the hill each week required them to upgrade to a truck. The boxes have slowed lately, but something arrives almost every day. The boxes crowd the porch — this is up in a tranquil stretch of the Blue Ridge Mountains — before gradually making their way inside, past the patio table, which came from a box, and its four chairs, from boxes all. The living room was largely furnished from the boxes: a couch, an end table, rugs, the love seat. In the bedroom, the boxes account for artwork, linens, a clothes rack, the mattress and several pillows, of course. The extra window unit air-conditioners: white boxes from brown boxes. The kitchen is stocked from the flow of boxes — the knife block, the espresso machine, the convection oven — as are the home’s closets. The office is almost all box — furniture, printers (regular and 3-D), computer, at least 13 hard drives and four routers. The art on the walls came this way; the new shelves installed to store the items from the porch boxes came through porch boxes. The camera system through which the porch boxes are surveilled was itself unpacked from a porch box. The worry is thieves, though the camera mostly catches wildlife: rabbits, turkeys and mice, with an elk every once in a while, and, so far, one coyote and a bear.K.T., 54, shares this home, and these boxes, with her husband and two dogs. She’s a volunteer animal rescue transport driver and a former proofreader, but now much of her time and attention is devoted to box intake and processing. She does most of her shopping online, she said; the nearest town only has about a thousand residents, and it’s usually more convenient to order. That, and the fact the vast majority of these boxes arrive free of charge courtesy of Amazon itself.K.T. is an Amazon “Vine Voice.” Amazon sends her free stuff; she, as an established and trusted reviewer, tests it out and writes reviews. During a recent gathering she joked with family that her spouse was wearing Vine socks, Vine jeans, a Vine shirt, Vine underwear, and had on Vine cologne. There are thousands of Vine Voices, but K.T. is almost certainly among the most prolific. Over the years, she has passed in and out of Amazon’s overall Top 100 reviewer rankings. The Times agreed to not identify her. For Vine reviewers, identifying information — names, email addresses, websites — can be construed as a solicitation for free products from non-Vine sources, which Amazon can decide is grounds for removal from the program.And K.T. takes her responsibilities seriously, dedicating time to each new item that emerges from the boxes and writing reviews that are succinct but complete. She helps run an online community for other Vine Voices — there’s another Viner in her town; she traveled out of state to meet the co-moderator of her community, whom she considers a close friend — and has reshaped her life around the program. “It’s only been about three years,” she said, “so I’m sort of new.”The Secrets of StuffIf you invested $5,000 in Amazon in August of 2007, when Vine was announced, your stock would now be worth more than $100,000. If, instead, you had started reviewing your Amazon purchases, built a reputation as a reliable reviewer, secured an invite to the Vine program, kept your head down, filed your assignments and avoided the occasional purges of reviewers, your take-home total might today exceed that number, although in somewhat less liquid forms: five vacuums here; 14 hard drives there; some laptops and cellphones; Bluetooth speakers, and headphones, and headsets, and, well, pretty much anything with Bluetooth, so much Bluetooth, mouthful after mouthful of blue teeth. The program was intended, in the company’s telling, to help its vendors “generate awareness for new and prerelease products” by “connecting them with the voice of the Amazon community.” Then, as now, but especially then, the Amazon reviewer community was at turns close-knit and competitive. “Being part of the Vine program at the very beginning gave me a sense of duty,” said Diana de Avila, who had already been writing Amazon reviews since the mid ’90s. “I thought, oh my gosh, this large, emerging company is just growing by leaps and bounds, and they wanted me to be part of this apparatus,” she said. In 2007 it was, as apparatuses go, primitive. On the third Thursday of each month, Ms. de Avila would take a seat at her computer a little before 3 p.m. and start refreshing, knowing that around the country, other Viners were doing the same. A monthly list would be posted to an internal portal and go out in an email as well. There might be a dozen items, each in limited quantities. The lists were heavy on books at first. Many of them would be gone in seconds, she remembered, and there were often technical difficulties. “That was the excitement of it,” she said. “I was pretty quick at the draw, so I got some pretty good stuff,” Ms. de Avila said. “I got multiple cameras, video cameras, probably more than a dozen.”Sign up here to receive Wait —, a weekly newsletter in which Caity Weaver investigates a question in the news and pop culture.Users could then go to a special Vine-only forum on Amazon’s site and discuss what they’d gotten. It was a fairly small world — there weren’t very many products or very many reviewers and also there were limits on how many users could claim. The forum thrived and suffered in ways that were characteristic of online communities of the time: There were habitual posters, show-offs, trolls and critics, and of course a steady supply of know-nothing newbies, newly invited by Amazon. The company itself was nearly silent: Aside from occasional announcements and necessary interventions, it left the forum to the Vine reviewers. “I sometimes think that maybe Amazon was reading,” Ms. de Avila said.The program swelled in both membership and inventory. A monthly email from 2011, for example, contained over 400 items, including a baby food maker, a line of Taco Bell sauces, a package of sticky notes, a dispenser for sticky notes, a few wall mounts for TVs and books, lots of books. The letters “USB” appear 42 times. Vine was a relic of an older web for a long time. Email newsletters! User forums! But in 2016, the service received a substantial overhaul. The emails and posts were replaced with a pair of feeds: One was targeted to each individual Vine user, based on preferences and shopping habits, and the other was visible to everyone. Old limits were lifted: You could now review as many products as you wanted.In 2015, Amazon had begun asking Vine reviewers for their tax information, which meant that, over a certain value, Vine products were no longer free, really. Review products count as income; their tax value, as calculated by Amazon, can be a major factor in which products Vine reviewers choose to have delivered. The most prolific reviewers have tax burdens in the tens of thousands of dollars. There are rules, loosely enforced but taken seriously. Amazon-branded products belong to you immediately; other products can be recalled up to six months later, and therefore can’t be sold or given away. (This rarely happens, if ever. The boldest Viners sell products right away, while some become extremely generous with charity. A super-Viner almost doesn’t have a choice, for space reasons alone.)“We ask Vine Voices not to resell products for six months,” Angie Newman, an Amazon spokeswoman, said in an email. “After that, the product is theirs and they can use it or dispose of it as they see fit.”Many donate enough to alleviate their tax burdens, but no more, so as not to attract the wrong kind of attention to their arrangements, unique as they are, and lacking anything in the way of guidance from Amazon itself.Now Vine was recreated in the image of the internet around it — an internet of interminable feeds and customized content, an endless space that can be checked and rechecked but never quite finished, demanding as much as you’re willing to give it. If Facebook’s feed let you gorge on birth announcements and conspiracy theories, and Instagram’s on photos of dogs and, I guess, mimetic desire, Vine’s feed — similarly aware of your habits and always refreshed — opened the door to actual things, distributed in the manner of content. Inside the Big Mystery BoxWhile most of us experience Amazon’s surveillance with a mixture of annoyance and bemusement — you are never allowed to forget what items you’ve looked at on Amazon, at least not until you buy them — Vine reviewers have learned to exploit it. “You can try to signal to it,” K.T. said. “I searched for drones, hoping they would show up in my targeting.” (No luck yet.) Sometimes Vine’s behaviors give the impression of something far less intelligent: Some Viners described getting clothing in more-or-less “random” sizes.In 2017, Amazon removed the Vine discussion forums from its site; Amazon didn’t share its reasons with Vine reviewers. (Logged-in reviewers still see a link to the forums on their profiles, but it leads nowhere.) To the extent there is a coherent Vine community still, it is spread across multiple private groups on Goodreads, the book review site owned by Amazon, and smaller communities further afield, on Reddit and Craigslist. They are throwbacks to the old Vine, and the old web: There are groups and splinter groups, cross-forum enemies, reputations and rivalries. Mostly, though, the forums serve the same needs that the old official forum did. They’re a place where people who are part of this odd program that they’re not supposed to talk about can figure out what’s going on in a system that changes constantly without notice, in the shadow of the company that is both an intense part of their lives and outwardly indifferent to their existence.In a Craigslist forum, for example, users spent recent weeks commiserating about their suddenly shrinking review queues. (They were restored shortly after, but posters weren’t happy with how: “Mine has been restocked as well, but with things I don’t need,“ said one. “That’s it — junk.” Another user warned others off a particular brand of chocolates he’d gotten for his wife: “They weren’t even edible and had a strange odor.” They discussed a recent investigation by the website The Verge into Amazon’s treatment of sellers (“great reading and it confirms everything we already know!”). They attempted to troubleshoot minor issues (Amazon’s brand Solimo, which makes a variety of household goods, seems to break the Vine interface for some reason) and major issues (a “technical error” reported last year, which exposed some Amazon users’ data, including email addresses, has created a huge problem for affected Vine reviewers: a flood of emails from overseas sellers attempting to bribe them for reviews and, in some cases, threatening to falsely tell Amazon that they’re doing it anyway). The forum has a resident tax expert.They talk about the weather, on planets Earth and Amazon. Reviewers are sometimes removed from the program without notice, or are reinstated. Sometimes they’re told they broke rules they didn’t believe they’d broken; other times, forum users are left to assume they’ve been culled by some sort of automated system designed to root out fraud, only to be brought back days later, after appeal. They’re also friends. K.T. described the old Vine forums as cliquish, and then, in their final days, gripped, like so many communities online, by politics. “They were all liberal, and a few of us weren’t, so they made an assumption that I support Trump,” she said, and that was that. She helps moderate one of the Goodreads forums now. It’s calmer. “‘What’s your life like?’ ‘What do you do?’ Then general happy stuff,” she said. “There’s a photo gallery thread for a member who is a great photographer.” “We are the same as any quilter’s group, or book club, that meets or chats about whatever common interests they enjoy,” she said. These are her Vine people. The other Goodreads forum has its Vine people too, and they all have Vine, and Amazon has them all.For the Brands“From a sky-high view, the reason Amazon is so successful is that it’s easy for people to find things on Amazon,” said Rachel Johnson Greer, a former Amazon employee of eight years, and currently the managing partner of Cascadia Seller Solutions, a firm that helps sellers on Amazon’s Marketplace. But the pool of products Amazon now draws from is, in most categories, large and not readily countable. And so, as with Google search results, getting your product on the first page of results for a specific term — or giving it a chance of floating upward in one of the site’s countless recommendation or discovery mechanisms — is crucial. In its earliest days, Amazon operated in plainer view: Products were categorized, then found by customers, then reviewed by customers. The good stuff ranked higher, the junk drifted out of view. Now, when customers don’t just have countless alternatives to a particular product but multiple ways on the site to buy the same product, even a potentially beloved product needs a leg up. “It’s a little bit of a Catch-22,” said Ms. Greer. “To show up in search, you have to have been clicked. To have been clicked, you have to show up in search.” Your listings are more visible if people have clicked on and purchased your products.Handily, Amazon is also an advertising platform — you can pay for people to see your product when they search for or look at certain things. But the economics are punishing. “If there are no reviews, people won’t click,” said Ms. Greer. “If you have a product that dips below 3.5 or 4 stars, your advertising cost doubles or triples.” To get the same clicks, you have to do a lot more advertising. People aren’t as willing to convert when there are lower reviews, and they’re not as likely to click in the first place. To get the clicks, you need to bid higher.” In that case, you would turn to other methods. You can advertise on Google. (Expensive.) You can hire influencers. (Works for some, useless for others; risky.) Or you can consider Vine. Participation in Vine is usually negotiated as part of vendor contracts with Amazon, according to the company. “If you start off with 30 four-star reviews, you have a leg up on everybody,” Ms. Greer said. Amazon has been testing Vine for Marketplace members — semi-independent sellers who now account for a majority of Amazon’s total sales — who, in 2016, were prohibited from soliciting “incentivized reviews” on their own. The initial price quoted to sellers was $1,000 per unique catalog item.In her view, this strategy is effective and, for the right products, economical. Amazon is a largely click-driven ecosystem, and reviews are a great way to get clicks. The main risk, she says, is that some Vine reviewers can be picky. They get a lot of stuff; yours probably isn’t the first pair of wireless earbuds they’ve used, or even reviewed. A four-star review average gets you through the door. Below three stars might close it completely. The earbuds better work. The White Market For Amazon, Vine is a legitimate, or at least sanctioned, alternative to one of the churning black markets that have manifested around the company. In the course of trying to contact Vine reviewers, whose contact information is not available on their Amazon profiles, I discovered sites where their email addresses — not listed on Amazon, but apparently scraped or hacked — were available for sale. There have long been attempts to manufacture independent Vine programs of a sort. Unscrupulous vendors or sellers can pay click-farmers to view their product listings again and again, manufacturing interest, as far as Amazon is concerned, in products that were otherwise going unseen. The black market for reviews is, despite Amazon’s pledges to fight it, vast and largely out of the company’s control. The least sophisticated operations can be discovered with a quick search on Facebook or the messaging app Telegram, where “Review Groups” are full of instructions to buy a product, send a PayPal account to an email address, and to expect reimbursement, and maybe a little more, in return. With names like “US Reliable Reviewers-Free&Discount Products,” some of these groups have thousands of members. Accordingly, fake — or at least unofficially incentivized — reviews are rampant on Amazon. A recent study by the e-commerce consultancy Fakespot estimated that 61 percent of electronics reviews are in violation of the site’s rules. Reporters at The Washington Post found that product ratings tended to drop when “questionable” reviews were removed. The question of whether Vine reviews themselves are tainted by the way in which the products are supplied is easy to recast in the context of rampant fraud: at least it’s out there in the open. (K.T., the Vine reviewer, took pride in her work; other Vine reviewers granted that some in the program really did just want free stuff, but insisted that those motivated for grift don’t last long.)“The whole process of reviews on Amazon can be really frustrating,” said Ms. Greer. “By default, Amazon created this problem by defining search results this way.” Amazon’s update to the adage includes the company’s name twice: You have to spend money on Amazon to make money on Amazon.The Way OutVine has a few plausible futures. Current users note that it is functionally sort of rickety — a mixture of old interfaces and new ones, clearly run by a relatively small team. In some ways, it has never fully grown up. When reviewers receive items, sometimes they’re affixed with cardboard tags, which Amazon uses to designate what sort of “sample” the shipment is. There are six check marks on the tag, categories that include “marketing” and ”pre-production” and “fitting.” There’s no box for Vine, so sometimes a seventh box gets penciled in, a hand-drawn one that is hand-labeled “Vine,” and then checked by the same hand. Maybe Vine gets sidelined, and replaced with something else — it’s been 10 years, anyway, and Amazon is always trying new things. (For example, it recently began rolling out a program to send free samples to users on behalf of major brands.) But the volume of products coming through Vine is still high, and the company clearly understands its utility beyond the fees it charges vendors. Amazon’s extensive and growing collection of private labels and exclusive brands also subscribes to the program, its listings topped up with conspicuously labeled Vine Voice reviews. Vine Voices make visible contributions to the ongoing construction of Amazon’s retail reality, review by review, star by star.Vine has already changed a lot, changing with it the lives of its reviewers. The life of a super-Viner is one for which not everyone is well adapted. Last year, on Reddit, a Vine reviewer who had been in the program since 2007 shared that she had been kicked out. “I’m getting ready to downsize,” she said, “and was so relieved to log in tonight and see that I am no longer a part of Amazon Vine.”She continued: “Pretty much my whole house is furnished with Amazon Vine. I eat Amazon Vine daily, and groom with Amazon Vine daily. I was no longer selective. I got divorced some years ago and it was nice to not want to take any material things with me because I knew goodies would be coming my way, and I was blessed with so much.” It’s a startling sentiment, to be relieved to no longer have access to, effectively, unlimited free stuff. But commenters — other Viners — were generally sympathetic. In a private message, she explained to me how she had drifted into a state of “overconsumption.” Things were exciting for a few years, she said, mentioning the same thrill in nabbing a good item, or a “shiny,” enjoying the rhythmic patterns of old Vine.But then the feed came along. “I found myself checking the queue a dozen times a day,” she said. “I didn’t want to miss the next great thing.”People tend to consider purchases. But when things are given to you, and it’s your job to review them, the value of the object gets scrambled in surprising ways, and its influence on your life becomes easy to minimize, or disregard. The free rug needs artwork to match. You wanted a road bike, but the beach cruiser was free, and now you have a bike, but you don’t really ride it. You get a Keurig, and you hate it, but Vine keeps sending K-cups, and so you keep drinking them. “Eventually, I think Vine caught on that I wanted a Nespresso from my search history,” she wrote, “and I was finally offered a Nespresso.” “I have eleven Vine watches, yet I only wear two on a regular basis,” she said. “Before Vine, I did not even own a watch, as I considered them old-fashioned when you can check the time on your cellphone.”Asked if she felt Vine had altered her relationship with material goods, K.T., the Vine reviewer in the Blue Ridge Mountains, suggested they consider how it might allow them to give back. “I pray for thanks and the blessing of Vine every day,” she said. She’s grateful, she says, not just to have access to this conduit of things that she might need or wants, or for the ways it allows her to be generous with other people, but for the task itself. “I’m just a regular person, I’ve got no claim to fame,” she said. “NASA isn’t calling on me,” she said. But Amazon is. Sort of.  Like many Viners, she been girding for bad news for years, just in case. “You’re getting so much good from this, and you’re not doing anything special,” she said. Her boxes — and what has effectively become her job — could cease tomorrow. “To Amazon, you’re abstract. For me. it’s an actual, physical, material manifestation. It’s here, it’s present in my life,” she said. “I’m just hoping that if I give quality reviews,” she said, trailing off. “Until it smacks me in the face, I don’t need to add complications in my life.”Ms. de Avila’s choice to leave Vine was a rare one. She echoed the sentiment shared on Reddit, that consumption divorced from what typically dictates it — not just price, but need and desire — can have surprising effects. In 2014, she moved to a smaller home in a new place. She started getting rid of stuff. She was getting behind on her reviews, and started to feel guilty. She was losing her Sundays to Vine, just to catch up, and the boxes just kept coming. “It was becoming more and more difficult to become excited about receiving gifts from people,” she said. “It was kind of like someone who wins the lottery.” It was too much stuff, and too much expectation. Perhaps it was her keener-than-usual awareness of how stuff fits into your life, or her previous experiences dealing with less-than-communicative omniscient beings. “I was a nun for seven years,” she said, “so I come from a different kind of material perspective: Take what you need. Don’t overuse.” But she was also a dedicated early adopter — she was a Google Glass Explorer, for example, helping the company test out its controversial and since-shelved smart glasses — and had been seeking a sense of purpose after retiring from her secular career in information technology. Ms. de Avila was also living with multiple sclerosis. Vine arrived at the right time. “It gave me a way to build meaning,” she said, “leaving a corporate job with a lot of responsibility.” Receiving boxes from Amazon, and completing the corresponding Vine tasks, gave her a temporary new identity.“I loved it,” she said, “I just knew it was time to step away.” When she did, she said, she was at peace. She doesn’t miss it. Lately, Ms. de Avila has been cultivating what she said was a “sudden-onset” new ability that she described as arriving after a relapse with multiple sclerosis, and has devoted herself to creating art. She is particularly drawn to fractals — images that are self-similar no matter their scale — and has been accepted into juried exhibitions near her home in Florida. “I’ve discovered that art has become the ultimate benefactor for me,” she wrote on her own website, where she sells her work directly to consumers. “Its gifts,” she said, “are bottomless.”Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Breaking down the speechIn his 82-minute address last night, President Trump cited U.S. economic growth and his efforts to keep it up, while attacking opponents in a speech that ostensibly called for unity in Washington. Here are the highlights for the business world:Mr. Trump defended his economic record. He took credit for America’s robust economic health — a key message for his 2020 re-election campaign — and assailed critiques of his administration’s efforts, including tax cuts and loosened regulations. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations,” he said.He kept pressure on China. Mr. Trump promoted his administration’s trade battle with Beijing, saying, “We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end.” Talks between Washington and Beijing over a compromise are continuing.And he painted his potential rivals as socialists. As Democratic presidential contenders promote policies like Medicare for all, Mr. Trump tried to paint them as peddlers of dangerous ideas. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said.What didn’t he talk about? “Trump’s speech was notable for what he did not mention, including the ballooning federal debt, once a centerpiece of the Republican agenda; nor did he talk about Social Security, Medicare or other entitlements,” Philip Rucker and Toluse Olorunnipa of the WaPo write. Democrats fought back. Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for Georgia’s governorship last year, focused on “outlining the party’s vision for lower health care costs and a more inclusive immigration policy, and pressing her case that access to the voting booth should be easier, not harder.”Goldman may shrink its onetime trading powerhouseSteep cuts could hit Goldman Sachs’s commodities arm, which once generated huge profits for the firm, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.What may happen: “Executives are discussing pulling back from trading iron ore, platinum and other metals, and are ordering cost cuts to the sprawling logistics network that handles the transport and storage of physical commodities,” Ms. Hoffman writes.The context: The business was once one of Wall Street’s most envied money makers. But such trading has suffered in recent years, thanks to changing markets and tighter regulations. And Goldman’s current C.E.O., David Solomon, cut his teeth as an investment banker and is focused on operations like lending and asset management.The symbolism: “By taking a knife to the business, Mr. Solomon is sending a message down the ranks that nothing is sacred,” Ms. Hoffman writes.Why are stocks rising on mediocre earnings?In recent weeks, several companies — including Ford, G.E., JPMorgan Chase and Wynn Resorts — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally, writes Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade.”• “With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.”• “Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon.”• “Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed.”• “At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results.”A peek inside Wisconsin’s disastrous deal with FoxconnWhen the Chinese electronics manufacturer Foxconn decided to set up shop in the Midwest, President Trump hailed the move as “one of the great deals ever.” But Bloomberg Businessweek, which interviewed 49 people familiar with the project, reports how badly the effort has gone.The plan was to create a high-tech manufacturing hub. It was to be led by a Mount Pleasant plant housing a large chunk of Foxconn’s LCD TV production. “As Foxconn has discovered, there is no better place to build, hire, and grow than right here in the U.S.,” Mr. Trump said at the time, promising that it would create as many as 13,000 jobs.But manufacturing hasn’t taken off. “LCD components weren’t made in the U.S.A., according to sources familiar with the operation,” Austin Carr of Businessweek writes. “They were shipped from a Foxconn factory in Tijuana. The Wisconsin plant was only handling the last steps of assembly.” He adds that “during 2018, the company tried and failed to produce its own LCD materials at scale in Wisconsin so it wouldn’t have to import them from Mexico.”Nor has pay or recruitment. “Pay at the factory started at about $14 an hour with no benefits, much less than the $23 average Foxconn promised. Many people weren’t hired full time,” Mr. Carr writes. “Last fall, the company’s hiring targets began dropping internally,” he adds, with Foxconn importing foreign staff for some roles.Tracking the biggest public company? Good luckKeeping hold of the title of most valuable American company is proving to be difficult, Stephen Grocer of the NYT writes:• “The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year.”• “The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results.”• “The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years.”Blankfein vs. Sanders over stock buybacksA bill introduced by Senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock drew outrage from many in the corporate world — and tempted Goldman Sachs’s former C.E.O. Lloyd Blankfein to tweet for the first time in nearly seven months.Mr. Blankfein’s take: “A company used to be encouraged to return money to shareholders when it couldn’t reinvest in itself for a good return,” he tweeted. “The money doesn’t vanish, it gets reinvested in higher growth businesses that boost the economy and jobs. Is that bad?”Mr. Sanders’s retort: The senator shot back that a buyback, “increases the wealth of billionaires” like Mr. Blankfein. “Instead of making the very rich even richer, how about increasing wages for American workers. Is that a bad idea?”More buyback news: SoftBank of Japan plans to spend $5.5 billion of proceeds from the listing of its telecommunications arm to repurchase stock.Taxpayers paid almost $1 million a day for Trump’s Mar-a-Lago tripsThe Government Accountability Office has published a report of the president’s travel expenses, which show the cost of his visits to his Florida holiday home:• From Feb. 3 to March 5 in 2017, Mr. Trump spent portions of 14 days at the holiday home. The G.A.O. said that those trips had cost a total of $13.6 million, or just less than $1 million per day.• The costs included travel and accommodations, Secret Service expenses and bomb detection. Almost $60,000 was paid directly to Mar-a-Lago.• The Democratic senators Dianne Feinstein and Gary Peters, who requested the report, said the findings provide “a snapshot of the tens of millions of dollars President Trump spends to travel to his Palm Beach resort — all at taxpayer expense — including government funds that are paid directly to a business in which the president himself has a financial interest.”Revolving doorAngela Ahrendts will step down as Apple’s retail chief in April after a five-year run. She’ll be succeeded by Deirdre O’Brien, the company’s head of human resources.SeaWorld Entertainment said it would hire Gus Antorcha, who was most recently Carniva Cruise Line’s chief operating officer, as its new C.E.O.Goldman Sachs promoted Nick Giovanni to co-head of its global tech, media and telecom investment banking team.The speed readDeals• Reddit is reportedly raising as much as $300 million in fresh capital at a valuation of about $2.7 billion. (TechCrunch)• Tyson Foods has reportedly held talks to buy Foster Farms, a producer of chicken products, for about $2 billion. (CNBC)• Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil plan to invest $10 billion in a Texas hub for exporting natural gas. (NYT)• The activist investor Edward Bramson has renewed his push for a seat on the board of Barclays. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft led a $250 million investment in Databricks, a self-professed “boring A.I.” start-up, at a $2.75 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Spotify has struck deals to buy Gimlet Media, the podcast production company, and Anchor, a start-up that helps people make their own podcasts. (Recode)• The E.U. has blocked a merger of the rail divisions of Siemens and Alstom, saying the deal reduced competition too much. (European Commission)Politics and policy• Imaad Zuberi, a venture capitalist and longtime Democratic donor who later gave to Republicans after the 2016 campaign, has drawn scrutiny in a federal inquiry into President Trump’s inauguration. (NYT)• Federal prosecutors are investigating foreign payments to three law and lobbying firms — Mercury Public Affairs; the Podesta Group; and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom — recruited by Paul Manafort. (NYT)• A bipartisan group of senators proposed reimposing sanctions on ZTE if the Chinese telecom company again violates U.S. laws. (CNBC)• The Trump administration has sought to shore up support for its pick to lead the World Bank, David Malpass, ahead of an expected announcement of the nomination today. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump plans to meet with Kim Jong-un of North Korea in Vietnam later this month to revive their nuclear-weapons talks. (NYT)Trade• The Chinese government says that a U.S. report on its compliance with World Trade Organization rules is incorrect. (Reuters)• The U.S. has become Britain’s top oil supplier for the first time since the Suez crisis in 1956. (FT)• U.S. soybean farmers say they don’t share President Trump’s optimism about the sale of their crops to China. (Business Insider)Tech• France ordered Apple to pay back taxes that could amount to hundreds of millions of euros. (FT)• Snap’s stock price jumped over 20 percent after disclosing record revenues — but Bloomberg warns that “not performing terrible is not the same as performing well.” (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Huawei could face a 5G ban in Canada. (Bloomberg)• China’s economic slowdown is hurting its tech start-ups. (WSJ)• Facebook has taken down 22 more pages linked to the Infowars founder Alex Jones. And here’s an antitrust argument for blocking the social network’s plan to integrate its messaging services. (Recode, NYT Op-Ed)• Tesla has again cut the price of its cheapest Model 3, this time by $1,100. (CNBC)Best of the rest• Deutsche Bank says that the German economy is inching toward recession. (Bloomberg)• Blackstone is pulling back on plans to invest billions of dollars across Africa. It has also started a fight with an Italian media mogul. (WSJ, FT)• Some central banks have gold fever, and that might actually be sensible. (Breakingviews)• Walt Disney revealed its plans for a new service to rival Netflix. And the BBC and Discovery have joined forces for a streaming service focused on wildlife shows. (WSJ, FT)• The Federal Reserve will include high unemployment in its 2019 stress test scenarios for big banks. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault aren’t done feuding in the wake of the Carlos Ghosn scandal. (WSJ)• Business leaders should revisit their yearbooks in light of the Ralph Northam scandal. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Good Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.“At halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations”President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________A reminder to Facebook and Google: Don’t mess with AppleFacebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.A Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank merger seems increasingly likelyDeutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.Expect ambiguity in the jobs dataThe Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Earnings reports show looming challengesInvestors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Revolving DoorIntel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Speed ReadsDeals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Good Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.China trade talks turn to currencyThis week’s trade negotiations between the U.S. and China will have to bridge a lot of gulfs between the two countries. One particularly tricky issue is that Washington wants Beijing to adopt a policy that would keep the value of China’s currency stable. More on that from Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources:• “While the precise wording remains unresolved, a pledge of yuan stability has been discussed in multiple rounds of talks in recent months and both sides have tentatively agreed it will be part of the framework of any final deal.”• “The Trump administration has been clear in its talks with Beijing that any attempt to depreciate the yuan — a strategy aimed at offsetting existing U.S. duties on Chinese imports — would be met with more or higher American tariffs.”• But currency stability may be at odds with other policies. “A U.S. request for Beijing to keep the yuan from depreciating is also potentially difficult to square with Trump and past U.S. administrations’ calls for China to adopt more market-driven reforms and complaints that Beijing manipulates its currency to gain a trade advantage.”There are other contentious issues. The FT rated the chances of success of several critical issues being discussed this week, from stronger protections of intellectual property rights (likely to happen) to the cessation of hacking (much less likely).And any deal would need enforcement measures. CNBC reports that unidentified officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believe a deal would be meaningless if there aren’t mechanisms such as automatic tariff increases to punish China if it fails to keep its promises.But there appears to be less time pressure. President Trump said yesterday that the March 1 deadline for reaching an agreement “is not a magical date,” adding that “a lot of things can happen.”Can Theresa May get what she wants from Brussels?The British prime minister is meeting with European officials today in an attempt to reach a final compromise that would save her Brexit plan. It won’t be easy.Her goal is to revise the deal. “The British government sees May’s meeting on Wednesday with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a crucial chance to get legally binding changes” to the agreement, Bloomberg reports.She has dropped some controversial ideas to help her position. The FT reports that the notion of using technology to solve issues surrounding the Irish border — a plan considered unworkable by E.U. officials — has been abandoned.But Europe still isn’t budging. “There isn’t enough movement for me to be able to expect this to be a discussion with a concrete outcome,” Mr. Juncker said yesterday, later adding “I’m losing my time with this Brexit,” according to Bloomberg.More Brexit news: Britain is unlikely to secure trade deals with Japan and South Korea before it exits the E.U. Another lawmaker has left Britain’s opposition Labour Party to join a newly formed independent group. Three Conservative Party lawmakers have also resigned to join the new group. Honda may move some of the British production of its Civic model to the U.S. — and other Japanese automakers may also leave the country.How a Bernie Sanders presidency would affect businessThe Vermont senator finally tossed his hat into the 2020 ring yesterday, becoming the latest candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination. Mr. Sanders quickly became one of the most formidable candidates: He raised more than $4 million from individual donors in just one day and retains a big fan base from his 2016 run.CNBC breaks down how Mr. Sanders would affect the business world should he become president:• His Medicare-for-all concept, introduced in 2017, proposes moving Americans away from private health insurance to a government-provided policy. He has also pressed to cut drug prices.• He has long criticized big banks, and has fought to break up institutions like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs. Earlier this month, he also teamed up with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, on legislation to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock.• He wants a higher minimum wage of $15 an hour, and has put pressure on Amazon, Walmart and other companies to follow suit.But there’s a big caveat to his 2020 odds. As Sydney Ember of the NYT notes: “Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers.”California and the U.S. hit an impasse over vehicle standardsTalks between state and federal officials on vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards have broken down, Bloomberg reported, citing unnamed sources:• The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had been meeting with California’s Air Resources Board to try and compromise on a replacement for Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.• “The breakdown in talks adds to tension between Washington and Sacramento, which has emerged as a major antagonist to the Trump administration.”• “No further discussions are scheduled over the critical auto industry rules, said the people, who asked to not be identified discussing the private talks.”• California is America’s biggest auto market, and as such has set a de facto national standard for auto emissions.How Trump tried to stymie investigationsThe NYT took a deep dive into how President Trump has sought to clamp down on the many investigations that touch upon his presidency over the past two years. Among the incidents the newspaper uncovered:He tried to install a loyalist as head of the Michael Cohen inquiry. “He asked whether Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a Trump ally, could be put in charge of the widening investigation, according to several American officials with direct knowledge of the call,” the NYT reports. The acting attorney general at the time, Matthew Whitaker, demurred.He wanted a misleading public statement about Michael Flynn’s resignation. As White House officials discussed how to explain the departure of Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, amid an F.B.I. investigation, the president asked Sean Spicer, then the press secretary, to say he had requested Mr. Flynn’s resignation. When Mr. Spicer asked if that was true, Mr. Trump responded, “Say that I asked for his resignation.”He has sought to discredit the special counsel, Robert Mueller. With the arrival of Rudy Giuliani on his legal team, Mr. Trump “decided to combine a legal strategy with a public relations campaign in an aggressive effort to undermine the credibility of both Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department,” the NYT reports. The result: Polls last summer showed more Americans distrusted Mr. Mueller, prompting Mr. Giuliani to say, “I think we’ve done really well.”The S.E.C. wants to make I.P.O.s easierThe Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a proposal yesterday that would let all companies — not just certain small ones — confidentially discuss potential I.P.O. plans with investors before committing to the process, the WSJ reports:• “The conversations would allow companies to identify information that is important to investors and to gauge market interest before formally announcing a public offering.”• “Currently, large companies must publicly file their securities offering documents to regulators before gauging investor interest.”• “Making it easier and more appealing for companies to go public has been a central goal of S.E.C. Chairman Jay Clayton. The number of public companies has fallen by nearly 50 percent since the late 1990s.”• But this potential change isn’t as revolutionary as others the S.E.C. has proposed, Anna Pinedo of the law firm Mayer Brown told the WSJ. “It’s not going to single-handedly change if a company was going to decide to go public or not,” she said.Walmart had a great quarter — and an awful morningThe American retail giant is riding high after a banner earnings report yesterday, with its shares up as much as 4 percent in Tuesday trading. Here’s why:• Profits rose 69 percent to $3.69 billion.• Online sales were up 43 percent during the quarter, matching the company’s goal.• Same-store sales in the U.S. were up 4.2 percent in the quarter, above the 3.2 percent that analysts had expected.But Britain’s competition regulator dealt it bad news this morning by essentially blocking the company’s plan to merge its Asda grocery chain with J Sainsbury. The move hinders Walmart’s effort to shed the underperforming business, since it’s unclear how the American retailer can divest it.Why housing (probably) won’t start a recessionThe U.S. may be on the brink of a recession, but housing is unlikely to be the cause, Conor Dougherty of the NYT writes. Here’s why:• “The housing sector accounts for as little as 3 percent of economic output during recessions and about twice that during booms. Other pieces of the economy are much bigger, but they don’t change nearly as much from boom to bust.”• “The most recent recession, from 2007 to 2009, offered one of the more exaggerated examples of housing’s guiding role in downturns. A recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis found that the construction sector accounted for a little over a third of the decline in output in the past recession.”• “How does housing look now? Mixed, but mixed in such a way that the things most important to economic growth are the most stable.”• “When economists talk about a recession in housing, they largely refer to construction, not home prices,” and “construction is bordering on moribund.”• “In other words: Housing is in recession already. It might not get better soon, but it probably won’t get worse.”Revolving doorPresident Trump will nominate Jeffrey Rosen as deputy attorney general, replacing Rod Rosenstein.Marc Short, who was President Trump’s legislative director for two years, has become Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff.Lindsay Walters, a White House deputy press secretary, will leave in April to join Edelman, the P.R. firm.CNN hired Sarah Isgur Flores, the Justice Department’s spokeswoman under Jeff Sessions, as a political editor in Washington.The speed readDeals• Carl Icahn publicly urged Caesars Entertainment to sell itself. (Reuters)• BlackRock and KKR are reportedly in talks to invest as much as $5 billion in Abu Dhabi’s oil pipeline network. (FT)• PepsiCo agreed to buy Muscle Milk from Hormel for an undisclosed amount, the first acquisition under its new C.E.O. (Bloomberg)• Just Inc., the maker of egg-free mayonnaise, is reportedly seeking $200 million in new funding. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• A majority of Americans back Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a system of universal child care, which would be paid for by her plan to increase taxes on the wealthy. (NYT)• The Trump administration wants California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money spent on the state’s high-speed rail efforts. (NYT)• A federal ethics watchdog refused to certify financial disclosures by the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. (CNBC)Tech• Microsoft says hackers associated with Russian intelligence tried to breach European think tanks and nonprofit organizations in the run-up to elections in May. (NYT)• Germany is reportedly leaning toward allowing Huawei technology in its wireless networks. A British defense think tank has called the use of the Chinese company’s technology on 5G networks “irresponsible.” (WSJ, FT)• Blockchains were supposed to be unhackable. Maybe they’re not. (MIT Technology Review)• A federal judge delayed a lawsuit about a Pentagon cloud computing contract — that Amazon was expected to win — over “new information” about possible conflicts of interest in the procurement process. (WSJ)• QuadrigaCX customers are trying to hunt down funds currently locked away because they’re secured by a password known only to the company’s late C.E.O. (WSJ)Best of the rest• McKinsey & Company will return $15 million in fees to resolve an investigation into allegations that it did not make required disclosures while working on bankruptcies. (NYT)• Nissan and Renault look set to clash over whether they should share the same new chairman. (FT)• The extradition to the U.S. of Roger Ng, a former Goldman Sachs banker who faces fraud charges over his involvement in the 1MDB scandal, could be delayed. (Bloomberg)• Why HSBC’s bankers should prepare for lower bonuses. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Lacking financial joy? “How to ‘Marie Kondo’ your investment portfolio.” (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Affluent people have a new option for fending off the tax man: opportunity zone funds, which were included in the 2017 tax law as a way to help distressed neighborhoods.The funds are spurring interest among investors as a way of deferring and reducing capital gains. But whether they will substantially help needy communities is another question.Critics say that too often, the zones target the wrong districts. Amazon’s proposed corporate campus in Queens fell in areas designated as opportunity zones. The issue became moot when Amazon announced it would pull out of its planned New York headquarters.An Urban Institute analysis found that more than a quarter of designated zones already had relatively high levels of investment.Timothy Weaver, an assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, said the notion of tax-favored development zones has been tried before, often with lackluster results.“Money flows into the safe bets,” he said. He cited Louisville, Ky., where some areas that are already being gentrified have been designated as opportunity zones while some poorer tracts have not. “There’s no question,” he said, “that the primary beneficiaries of the program are the investors.”But in financial markets, opportunity funds are creating a buzz. “It’s arguably the most significant tax break in decades,” said Ben Miller, co-founder and chief executive of Fundrise, a real estate crowdfunding site that is sponsoring an opportunity fund.Based on recommendations from state governments, the United States Treasury has designated more than 8,700 eligible census tracts in urban, suburban and rural areas across the country.The opportunity funds are the vehicles for investing in these zones. The idea is that investors get federal tax breaks, while the neighborhoods get new businesses and upgraded properties, like apartment buildings, retail shops and hotels.But the rules are complex, and the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service didn’t clarify many details until October; more guidance is still expected. The recent government shutdown didn’t help.That said, opportunity funds are beginning to gain steam. The main questions for investors — such as what kind of investment gains are eligible for investment in an opportunity fund — generally have been answered, Mr. Miller said.“The benefits are pretty significant,” Mr. Miller said.Here’s how it worksOpportunity funds let investors postpone federal taxes on recent capital gains until the end of 2026; they can also reduce the taxable portion of those gains by as much as 15 percent, after seven years. Further, investors can eliminate taxes on additional gains from investing in the fund itself, if they hold the investment for 10 years.So, if you have investments that have appreciated, you can defer capital gains taxes by selling the investment and reinvesting the money into an opportunity fund within six months. Almost any sort of capital gain qualifies, whether from the sale of stocks or mutual funds, or other investments, including the sale of real estate or a business. (One investor in Fundrise’s opportunity fund, Mr. Miller said, invested a gain from the sale of a dialysis clinic.)Just the gains on an investment — rather than the entire proceeds of a sale — must be reinvested in the opportunity fund. That’s “highly unusual” and one reason opportunity funds may appear attractive, said Jeffrey Levine, chief executive of BluePrint Wealth Alliance.Say you sold stock for $500,000, and $300,000 of it was a gain. Just $300,000 must be rolled into the opportunity fund and the remaining $200,000 can be used as the seller wishes, according to an example provided by Tim Steffen, director of advanced planning at Baird Wealth Solutions Group, part of Robert W. Baird & Company.By putting money in the fund, investors not only delay having to pay tax, but are also eligible for a partial exclusion of the tax on the reinvested gains. If you remain in the fund for five years, you will reduce the taxable gain by 10 percent; if you hold it an additional two years, for seven total, you will further reduce the taxable gain by another 5 percent.So, continuing with Baird’s example of the $300,000 reinvested gain, you would be taxed on $270,000 after five years, and on $255,000 after seven, assuming you made the investment in time to meet the various thresholds.“It wipes out a portion of the gain,” said Mike Windle, a partner with C. Curtis Financial Group in Plymouth, Mich.In addition, any profit you earn on your investment in the new fund is tax free, if you remain invested for 10 years. However, you must pay taxes on the initial gain that you rolled into the fund no later than Dec. 31, 2026, regardless of whether you remain invested in the fund, said Hal Zemel, a tax partner with the New York accounting and advisory firm Berdon.‘A bit of the wild West’The funds are generally not for small-time investors. Minimum investments are hefty — often at least $50,000 to $100,000 and, in some cases, much higher.While the tax benefits are enticing, investors should consider that property development has its own risks, and zones targeted by the new funds are, by definition, intended to be in areas where development generally hasn’t occurred on its own.Because the funds are so new, it’s uncertain how profitable they are going to be — and much may depend on the developers. “Picking a manager is critically important,” said David Coelho, chief investment officer for opportunity zone strategies at Bridge Investment Group, a real estate investment firm.“It’s a bit of the wild West out there,” Mr. Zemel said. “You really have to do your due diligence.”Mr. Levine said he was cautious about recommending opportunity funds to clients. “The last thing you want to do is take your gain, get blinded by a tax benefit, and lose your money,” he said.It’s likely, he said, that local developers who already had projects underway in the designated zones will benefit most.State governors naturally wanted to designate opportunity zones in areas most in need of capital, but some neighborhoods may be too depressed to appeal to investors, said Avy Stein, co-founder of Cresset Wealth Advisors, which is a partner in an opportunity fund. He said he considered many of the zones in Illinois to be particularly challenging for investors, while areas of California and the Pacific Northwest, along with Houston, Nashville, Omaha, New York and Washington, D.C., were more promising.Fundrise is targeting areas in Atlanta, Los Angeles, Seattle and Washington, D.C., as well as the Bay Area, including Oakland and San Jose. While it may appear that some areas had enough investment before their designation as opportunity zones, he said, a closer look reveals a more nuanced picture. For example, he said, the Manchester neighborhood of Richmond, Va., has had “pockets” of intense development but needs help to keep the momentum going. “Lack of further investment risks the failing of neighborhood redevelopments to date and a spiral back into decay,” Mr. Miller said.In a lush valley surrounded by the Peruvian Andes — past two sets of security gates, high fences, barbed wire and a rigorous pat-down — 13 women stood hard at work. They were weaving and knitting luxurious alpaca wool sweaters, deep-pile roll-necks and silky-soft track pants, destined to be sold to wealthy shoppers with lives far away, and a far cry, from their own. All were prisoners at the women’s penitentiary center in the city of Cusco, serving long sentences predominantly for drug-related crimes as well as murder, human trafficking and robbery. They were also employees of Carcel, a Danish brand founded in 2016 specifically to provide incarcerated women with jobs, training and, possibly, a crime-free future.More than two years into their program, both Carcel’s founders and the Peruvian prison authorities say the project has been a measurable success. It’s popular with prisoners and consumers alike and proof that the profitable and responsible production of luxury fashion can have a place behind bars. Peru is becoming something of a case study on the issue of aid versus exploitation. A little more than 5,000 women are currently incarcerated there, and over 50 percent are actively employed in producing leather goods, clothing and textiles, according to INPE, the national penitentiary institute. Yet questions around the ethics of prison labor and regulation have also made headlines of late. There have been reports of Muslims incarcerated in brutal Chinese internment camps producing sportswear apparel, and strikes against imposed labor for paltry wages in American prisons. This month, tensions flared on social media when Carcel introduced a new line of silk garments produced from women’s jails in Thailand. “Companies are literally advertising that they use slave labor now as a reason you should buy their product,” one person wrote on Twitter, prompting a chorus of outrage from hundreds. “Your ‘sustainable business model’ includes the need for women to be in prisons,” another user wrote, followed by a slew of confused-face emojis. The more Carcel posted explanations on its practices, payment models and prices, the angrier the online responses became. The long history of fashion and prison“Prison labor is a very complicated and opaque topic,” said Peter McAllister, the executive director of the Ethical Trading Initiative, an alliance of companies, trade unions and nongovernmental organizations that back workers’ rights.“On one hand, there are definitely well-intentioned brands with rehabilitation programs in place doing some good work all over the world,” he said. “On the other hand, there are big questions to be asked around whether inmates should ever form the mainstream production of a profit-driven label, particularly given how many unacceptable cases of prisoner exploitation exist deep in the global fashion supply chain.”Fashion has a long-established history in prisons, dating back to the 1700s. Traditionally, most manufacturing programs in countries like the United States or Britain were run either by government bodies or correctional boards in order to mass-produce low-value items at scale, like military uniforms. Inmates received well below the minimum wage, if anything at all. In the 1990s, with a record number of people behind bars in many countries, there was a boom in private companies employing prisoners for tasks as varied as telemarketing, the manufacturing of circuit boards, and garment production for brands like Victoria’s Secret and J.C. Penney.Today, in Britain, the average prisoner engaged in some kind of employment earns around £10 a week, a government report from 2016 found. In the United States, the value of prison labor to the economy continues to add up — though not for inmates. The Bureau of Prisons operates a program known as Federal Prison Industries that pays inmates roughly 90 cents an hour to produce mattresses, eyeglasses, road signs, body armor and other products for government agencies, earning $500 million in sales in 2016.The made-behind-bars trendOne product subcategory in particular has been gaining international traction in recent years: small, street trend-oriented brands selling clothing made by inmates, like Prison Blues in the United States, Stripes Clothing in the Netherlands and Pietà, another Peru-based label. All claim they can create a profitable and sustainable business model while also providing new jobs and opportunities for prisoners.Pietà was founded in Lima in 2012 by Thomas Jacob, a Frenchman who had once worked for Chanel, and currently employs around 50 male and female inmates from some of the largest jails in Peru. Prisoners manufacture anti-establishment logo T-shirts, sweatshirts, hand-knit sweaters, varsity jackets and high-top sneakers using locally sourced materials. Prices range from $8 for tote bags to $120 for jewelry.“There are a lot of men and women in jail very far from the image you may have of inmates, who just want to get by, to learn a skill, to work, to earn money,” said Mr. Jacob, who has opened five Pietà stores in the Peruvian capital and says he is considering an international expansion.“Of course there are major challenges, from security issues and logistics in a high-security jail to brokering relationships with prison administrations and between inmates,” he said. “But we are used to it all now.”Inmates don’t just make the clothes, he said — on occasion they also contribute to his designs, giving them both a creative outlet and training. Often, they act as models for advertising campaigns and are paid a portion of the sale price for each unit of clothing they produce, providing income they can send home to their families. Upon release, former inmates can continue working with Pietà, or seek jobs at other companies with Pietà’s recommendation and support.Louise van Hauen and Veronica D’Souza, the founders of Carcel (which means “prison” in Spanish), met while living and working in Kenya. The former was a creative manager at a leather bag company and the latter was the head of a social start-up that made and distributed menstrual cups. Ms. D’Souza said a visit to a women’s prison in Kenya in 2014 changed her thinking. “It became clear to me that virtually all of the inmates were mothers who were there because of poverty-related crimes, be it theft or prostitution. The same applies here in Peru,” she said. As part of the drug-production chain in Latin America, cocaine paste must be transported from crop areas in remote parts of the country by drug mules. Many are women, and often, they are nonviolent, first-time offenders. According to INPE, 85 percent have children to support at home.“Often these women get incarcerated, then released, but struggle to find ways to provide for their children, and the crime cycle would start all over again,” Ms. D’Souza said. “The system was clearly broken. It got me thinking about how we could create a new model that might break the cycle.”Ms. van Hauen said she wanted to start somewhere with proximity to high-quality natural materials, where some of the skills required were already part of local culture. “As one of the world’s largest alpaca wool exporters, and a country where knitting is a national pastime, Peru was perfect,” she said. Instead of designing streetwear, though, she and Ms. D’Souza decided to focus on the luxury end of the market. “Historically, lots of brands have struggled to make a profit or scale because of the low quality of product or design,” Ms. van Hauen said. By having inmates create goods of higher value, the thinking goes, the products have better retail viability and healthier profit margins — and the women hone a more worthwhile skill set.Virginia Matamoros, the director of Cusco Female Penitentiary, said that the prison offered basic training in sewing, weaving, baking and gardening to all new inmates with the hope that they can then move on to working with companies that can prepare them for release. “We accepted Carcel because it is an organized, formal company that works with good salaries and which has subsequently pushed the other companies that operate here to improve their pay rates and work schedule,” she said. Ms. Matamoros added that increased access to work opportunities could lessen the likelihood of recidivism. “More than anything, it is extremely positive for their self-esteem,” she said.‘I do this to overcome my past’In Cusco, the Carcel inmates are trained by more experienced weavers until they have developed the vocational skills to work a five-hour shift, five days a week. They earn cash salaries of 650 to 1,100 Peruvian soles ($180 to $329) per month, depending on their level of experience. Earnings in both Peru and Thailand are benchmarked against the national minimum wage. In Peru, this is 930 soles a month.“The women who work for us earn the same as an elementary schoolteacher here,” Ms. D’Souza said. “We believe that a fair job inside of prison should be equal to a fair job outside of prison.” The prison takes a 10 percent cut of inmates’ wages. The workers keep a portion for living expenses like food and soap, and Carcel pays the rest into their families’ bank accounts. Beyond the base salary, women can also receive bonuses for the quality of their work, good behavior and overtime.“When I got here eight years ago, this prison was a really sad place,” said Teodomira Quispe Pérez, 51, a widow and mother of six who has five more years to serve of a sentence for drug trafficking. She now oversees quality control in the Carcel workshop. “I am looking forward to getting out and buying my own machine. Working in this textile workshop takes me away from my imprisonment,” she said, folding an order of $190 baby alpaca T-shirts bound for Net-a-Porter. The luxury e-commerce platform started to stock Carcel last summer.“I do this to overcome my past and push forward for my daughter’s sake because I am hoping I can be with her again someday,” said another inmate, Flor Rosa Quispe Jacinto. Ms. Jacinto, 28, is in charge of training new workers in the three workshops and one classroom run by Carcel. Ms. Jacinto, who said she felt too ashamed to disclose the nature of the crime that put her in prison, showed off labels inside the garments that are printed with the name of both Carcel and the women who made it.It can sound too good to be true. “Prisoners by nature of their position are cut off from the rest of the world,” said Mr. McAllister. “They don’t have a voice. So the only stories you will ever hear from inmates about prison labor tend to be good ones, vetted by the companies or authorities involved.” (None of the 11 inmates interviewed by The New York Times appeared to have been coerced or coached.)There is no question the work is selling. According to Elizabeth von der Goltz, the global buying director of Net-a-Porter, fashion brands with social purpose are increasingly popular with shoppers. “Nearly all our Carcel styles sold out globally in just the first two weeks of launch, while the baby alpaca T-shirts are continuing to sell out week after week,” she said.To meet demand, Carcel is now looking to double its staff base in the Peruvian prison. At the company’s second production base in Thailand — the country with the most female inmates in the world — e-banking accounts are being developed for some prisoners and their relatives to minimize siphoning from wardens or companies. Carcel said it hoped to operate in a further three to five countries within the next five years. Considerable challenges remain. This week, Carcel halted sales in America when it became aware of a federal law that bans the import of goods made by convicts. The company is now seeking a waiver; it pointed out that the United States is one of the few countries that did not ratify a 2014 International Labor Organization convention on forced labor, despite domestic prison labor being legal. Net-a-Porter confirmed Wednesday that it would suspend Carcel sales until the issue was resolved.“The I.L.O. states on its website: ‘a good indication of whether prisoners freely consent to work is whether the conditions of employment approximate those of a free labor relationship,’ and that is what we root the principles of Carcel upon,” Ms. D’Souza said from Copenhagen during a phone interview. “We treat them as employees of a company, not prisoners in a jail.”Elizabeth Paton reported from London, and Andrea Zarate from Cusco, Peru.The American economy slowed at the end of 2018 — and there could be a further slowdown to come.Gross domestic product — the broadest measure of goods and services produced in the United States — grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, the Commerce Department said Thursday. That marks a significant slowdown from the middle of the year, when a sugar high fueled by tax cuts and government spending increases briefly pushed growth above 4 percent.This year seems to be starting at an even slower pace. Many economists expect growth to drop below 2 percent in the first quarter, in part because of the partial government shutdown, which began in December and extended through most of January.It’s important to keep the cooling economy in perspective. The fourth-quarter slowdown wasn’t as severe as many forecasters had feared, and even with the loss of momentum late in the year, 2018 as a whole was among the best years of the decade-long recovery from the Great Recession. And most economists do not expect a recession this year, putting the current expansion on track to become the longest on record.“I think this is a slowing,” said Lewis Alexander, chief United States economist for Nomura. “I don’t think this is ‘we’re falling into an abyss.’”A strong year — but how strong?Thursday’s report did give President Trump some bragging rights — albeit with an asterisk.Economic output rose 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier. That’s a politically salient benchmark because Mr. Trump and his advisers have repeatedly promised growth of 3 percent or better, something his predecessor never achieved over a full calendar year. (Mr. Trump has at other times promised growth of 4 percent or more.)“A year of 3.1 percent growth is something many people thought was impossible as recently as 2016, so it’s a major accomplishment,” said Kevin Hassett, chairman of Mr. Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers. “And it’s an accomplishment that has disproportionately benefited low-wage and blue-collar workers.”Still, Mr. Trump didn’t quite score a clear victory. By another commonly used method of calculating annual growth — which looks at G.D.P. over full years, not just comparing the fourth quarter of each year — the economy fell just short of that mark, coming in at 2.9 percent. Whether growth hits 3 percent might matter politically, but it makes little difference economically. The difference between 2.9 percent and 3 percent growth is negligible in any one year, and, in any case, the Commerce Department will revise its fourth-quarter estimate in March.The White House expects the roughly 3 percent pace of growth to continue in 2019 and for years into the future. Few independent economists agree. With the effects of the tax cuts and spending increases fading, the Federal Reserve expects growth to slow to 2.3 percent in 2019, and many economists are even more pessimistic.Slower, but not slowThe fourth-quarter slowdown wasn’t as bad as some forecasters had expected. Consumer spending, the bedrock of the economy, rose at a 2.6 percent rate — slower than in the middle of the year, but hardly a collapse. Exports, which slumped in the third quarter, rebounded in the fourth, suggesting that the cooling global economy isn’t yet dragging down American exporters. And businesses stepped up their investment in equipment, software and research, a sign that they are still betting on the future.Still, uncertainty about the direction of the economy has made some businesses more cautious. George Whittier, who oversees operations for the Morey Corporation, a manufacturer outside Chicago, said business was strong in 2018 but began to slow at the end of the year. He shrugged off weakness in December as a seasonal blip. But then January was softer, and February was softer still.Morey, which makes electronic components for cars, medical devices and other uses, has been hit by Mr. Trump’s tariffs, which raised prices on imported parts from China. At first, the impact was small, but it has grown as suppliers draw down inventories and are forced to import more.“As each month has gone by, it has seemed like more and more components have been affected,” Mr. Whittier said.For now, Mr. Whittier remains optimistic that the trade tensions will be resolved and 2019 will prove to be a good year. But he is taking a wait-and-see approach when it comes to making big investments.The stimulus effects are fadingThursday’s report left little doubt that the midyear surge in growth has dissipated, just as many economists predicted at the time. Tax cuts and federal spending increases provided a temporary lift, but that was offset by higher interest rates, trade tensions and a slowing global economy. And the effects of the stimulus will fade further in 2019.Residential investment, a proxy for housing construction, fell for the fourth straight quarter, as higher interest rates and declining affordability weighed on construction and sales. Retail sales dropped unexpectedly in December, which could be a sign that consumers are starting to pull back. And growth in the fourth quarter was driven in part by companies building up inventories, which could reverse in 2019.“On the one hand, I was encouraged that there wasn’t as much of a slowing as I thought,” said Ben Herzon, an economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm. “But on the other hand, what propped up growth in the fourth quarter was unsustainable.”The government shutdown came too late to make much difference to the fourth quarter, but it could be a significant drag on growth early in the year. The funding lapse idled hundreds of thousands of federal workers, left hundreds of thousands more working without pay and disrupted air travel, among other effects. Consumer confidence plummeted. Macroeconomic Advisers on Thursday cut its estimate of growth in the current quarter to 1.1 percent. Growth that weak would leave the United States with little buffer against an unexpected round of bad news — an escalation in the trade war with China, for example, or another round of fiscal gamesmanship around the debt ceiling. A rising share of economists expect a recession in 2020 if not sooner.“The economy’s already slowing and there are a bunch of reasons why it could slow down even more, and that just makes you vulnerable,” said Mr. Alexander of Nomura. “It would take less of a shock to push you over the edge” into a recession.Is there reason for optimism?Not everyone is so pessimistic. Most economists believe the shutdown did little long-term damage to the economy. Consumer confidence rebounded in February as federal workers returned to work and the stock market bounced back from its December slump. Job growth never suffered.“The fears of the economic expansion’s demise seem to have been greatly exaggerated,” said Beth Ann Bovino, chief United States economist for Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. She called Thursday’s report promising, and said it suggested the economy entered 2019 on firmer footing than some economists had feared.There are other reasons to think the economy could prove resilient. Trade tensions with China seem to have eased somewhat in recent weeks. The Federal Reserve has backed off plans to raise interest rates. And the combination of low unemployment, rising wages and low oil prices should help drive consumer spending.“All the fundamentals are there for a solid consumer recovery,” said Michael Pearce of Capital Economics.Euan Robertson started his job with New York City’s economic development team at an ominous moment. It was Monday, Sept. 15, 2008, the day Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy and ignited the financial crisis.Mr. Robertson made his way through City Hall’s sprawling open office to a conference table, where he huddled with top advisers to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.“No one knew what was going to happen or how bad it would be,” Mr. Robertson recalled. “But everyone agreed we’d better come up with a plan.”The plan that emerged called for developing tech start-ups and tech workers in New York. The goal, Mr. Robertson said, was to “build a talent engine” that would help make the city a magnet for coders and companies.A decade later, there is ample evidence that the city is well on its way to achieving that goal. Amazon’s sudden decision last week to abandon its plan to build a big campus in Queens, in the face of protests from some local politicians and community activists, is a setback — but not one that reverses tech’s climb in the city.Amazon already employs 5,000 workers in New York, and the city’s talent pool was the main reason, the company said, that it selected New York in November. In December, Google announced a major expansion that could double its New York work force to 14,000 over the next decade, without the rich government incentives that proved a lightning rod for the Amazon deal.Today, the city is home to thousands of fledgling companies, and the New York region regularly ranks second to the Bay Area in attracting venture capital, the lifeblood of the start-up economy. The city’s tech sector has become a wellspring of jobs paying more than $150,000 on average, a major part of the local economy.The story of tech’s ascent in New York stretches back nearly two decades. It was a bumpy path, with progress both by design and serendipity. DoubleClick, a survivor of the dot-com crash and a digital advertising pioneer, and Google, which made an early bet on the city, played key roles. And the Bloomberg administration also made smart policy moves.But tech in New York took hold mainly because entrepreneurs, technologists and corporations chose the city as the place to work and live, just as the city’s industries were undergoing digital transformations, according to interviews with more than two dozen people who contributed to the city’s evolution into a tech center.“The truth is, we caught a wave,” said Seth Pinsky, the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation from 2008 to 2013.Many of the city’s tech jobs are not in technology companies. Instead, they are tied to industries where the city has long been positioned as a world leader — like finance, advertising and media. Those businesses face threats from the rise of the digital age, and have adapted to compete, helping to revitalize the city’s economy in the process. There are twice as many technology jobs in non-tech industries in New York as there are in technology companies, according to Emsi, a labor market research firm.New York’s confidential proposal to Amazon, code-named Project Clancy, which is filled with detailed data on the city work force and labor market, points to the change. Amazon asked, for example, which companies had the most job openings in machine learning, a fundamental artificial intelligence skill. The top four, according to the proposal, were JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and KPMG. Tied for fifth place were Amazon and Google.[Read more: For the labor movement, tech giants present a quandary.]Skilled tech workers now flock to New York from everywhere. But the homegrown talent engine that city officials sought to jump-start a decade ago is also revving up. The new Cornell Tech graduate school campus on Roosevelt Island, a product of the city’s development plan, has 300 students, with expansion plans for a student population of 2,000 over the next two decades. And new courses, buildings and research institutes are underway at Columbia, New York University and the City University of New York.And they are being lured by urban amenities — museums, theater, opera, dance, jazz clubs, art galleries, bars and restaurants — that offer a clear alternative to life in suburban Silicon Valley.“The main resource in technology is smart people,” said Kevin Ryan, a longtime tech entrepreneur. “The New York tech sector is succeeding largely because New York is succeeding.”Tech’s Long New York PastAnyone designing hardware, writing code, or using a computer or a smartphone today owes a debt to the innovations developed in metropolitan New York decades ago. The first widely adopted programming language, Fortran, was created in 1957 by young coders working for IBM in an office on East 56th Street. Their wintertime breaks were snowball fights in Central Park. Researchers at Bell Labs, located first in Manhattan and then suburban New Jersey, invented the transistor, the Unix operating system, and the C and C++ programming languages — building blocks of modern computing.Technology innovation eventually migrated outside New York. Minicomputer makers sprang up in the Boston suburbs. But the larger move was westward, beginning in the late 1960s, when first the semiconductor business and later the personal computer industry took root in sunny Northern California.The 1990s internet boom opened the door to New York entrepreneurs, especially in the field of new media, with ventures like Feed and Suck, popular web magazines. Start-ups clustered in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, an area known as Silicon Alley.When theGlobe.com, an early social media website, went public in late 1998, its shares soared more than 600 percent, a record at the time. TheGlobe.com, like so many start-ups in Silicon Alley and Silicon Valley, collapsed when the dot-com bubble burst a couple of years later.Amid the dot-com meltdown, though, there was a contrarian bet on the city, unnoticed at the time, by a fledgling start-up: Google.The Rise of GoogleIn the late summer of 2000, Timothy Armstrong, at 29, qualified as an internet veteran. Mr. Armstrong helped create or became a senior manager at a string of ventures, and had a solid track record in internet sales and marketing when he met with Omid Kordestani, head of sales at Google.The company was looking to expand, and Mr. Kordestani arranged a meeting between Mr. Armstrong and its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, in Silicon Valley.The thinking at Google, Mr. Armstrong recalled, was little more than that the company wanted a big advertising business, and New York was where the ad money was. He signed a one-page contract with no guarantees.“The idea was, if it doesn’t work out, no harm, no foul,” Mr. Armstrong said.He became Google’s first employee in New York, working from his apartment on West 86th Street. The company was not yet two years old, the internet boom had crested, and ad agencies and consumer product companies were skeptical about the start-up’s offering — text ads linked to search results.Mr. Armstrong wanted to buy a fax machine to handle ad orders and billing. Mr. Page and Mr. Brin told him they wanted to see the orders before approving the purchase.“That’s how unsure people were about internet advertising,” Mr. Armstrong recalled.But the orders gradually picked up, becoming the cornerstone of the company’s booming business. An expansion of Google’s work force in New York followed.In 2003, Craig Nevill-Manning, a Google computer scientist, wanted to set up an engineering and research outpost in New York. The company’s leaders didn’t have high hopes, assuming all the best software engineers were in Silicon Valley. But they told him he could go ahead if he could find “Google-worthy” talent in New York — and he did, hiring 25 people in the first year.Corinna Cortes, a researcher at Bell Labs, was one of the early recruits. She joined Google to begin building a research arm in New York. Ms. Cortes lived in the West Village, had two young children and welcomed the opportunity to work on leading-edge computer science at Google and keep her city life. She enjoys theater and opera in Lincoln Center, restaurants in Greenwich Village and Soho and running trails along the Hudson River and in Central Park. She has completed the New York City Marathon 14 times and bikes to work.“There was no chance I would go to Mountain View,” said Ms. Cortes, who now leads about 200 scientists for Google Research in New York. “I wasn’t going to live in the suburbs.”By 2006, Google, at that point a darling of Silicon Valley, was settling into the city in a big way, moving into a blocklong Art Deco building in Chelsea. It needed the space, as Google would steadily enlarge its New York work force, to 7,000 today, more than half of them technical staff. In December, the company announced it would spend $1 billion on more office space in downtown Manhattan.Google’s relationship with the capital of the nation’s advertising business was cemented in 2007, when Google announced it would buy DoubleClick for $3.1 billion.DoubleClick, an internet ad-serving, tracking and analysis company that started in New York in 1996, had good technology, but also close ties to brand advertisers, ad agencies and online publishers. At its peak in 2000, the company reached a stock market value of $12 billion, holding on after the dot-com crash.In 2005, DoubleClick was taken over by a private equity firm for $1.1 billion, and two years later, with its fortunes improving, Google paid nearly three times as much.“It was a true diamond in the ashes of the dot-com flameout,” said Mr. Armstrong, who left Google as a senior vice president in 2009 to become chief executive of AOL.“When Google bought DoubleClick, it really took off,” said Randall Rothenberg, chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade association. “That was an inflection point for the digital advertising business in New York.”‘Game Changers’In early 2009, with the city economy reeling, a small team in the Bloomberg administration began an extensive analysis, code-named Game Changers. The team interviewed hundreds of executives, venture capitalists, urban experts and educators. It studied the technology-driven economic growth in Silicon Valley and in Israel’s start-up cluster in Haifa.It concluded that New York needed more computer engineering expertise. The city was a world leader in finance, media, advertising, law and consulting. Why shouldn’t the technology for those industries be built here? The Bloomberg administration called its technology-promotion policy “applied sciences.”“That was our mantra, what we thought of as the yeast for changing the economy,” said Robert Steel, the former deputy mayor for economic development. “And applied sciences would be the key to making the new digital world here instead of someplace else.”The city pushed applied sciences experiments, including start-up incubators, networking events and training and internship programs, nearly all private-public partnerships. But the biggest single step in the city’s applied sciences campaign was the creation of a new graduate school focused on technology and entrepreneurial innovation.Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Steel ran a high-profile competition that included Columbia, New York University and Carnegie Mellon University. In the end, though, a combined bid by Cornell and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology won out.The Cornell Tech proposal fully embraced the Bloomberg administration’s priority of blending science and industry. Graduate students’ projects at local companies are a mainstay of the curriculum.“In New York, people are driven by real-world problems that can be solved with technology,” said Daniel Huttenlocher, the dean of Cornell Tech, who has also worked in Silicon Valley and is an Amazon board member. “In Silicon Valley, the heritage is much more to build cool technology and then figure out how it can make money.”The Flywheel Starts to SpinIn healthy tech hubs, start-ups spawn other start-ups. That has been the pattern in Silicon Valley since the early days of chip making — young entrepreneurial refugees from Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory would go on to found Fairchild Semiconductor and later Intel.But in New York, the virtuous cycle of start-up reproduction has accelerated only in recent years. It took time, entrepreneurs and investors say, for the tech community in New York to build the success stories, human networks and self-confidence that inspire serial risk taking.DoubleClick, once again, was a trailblazer as it became a training ground for New York entrepreneurs. The most prominent is Kevin Ryan, a former chief executive of DoubleClick. He became a founder of six companies, including two e-commerce companies, the Gilt Groupe and Zola; an online business news site, Business Insider; and a database company, MongoDB.Mr. Ryan, the son of a manager at Caterpillar, was raised in the Midwest and in Europe, when his father was posted abroad. He majored in economics at Yale, got his M.B.A. at Insead in France, worked on Wall Street and helped develop the Dilbert website in 1995, as a manager at E. W. Scripps, a media company.The next year, Mr. Ryan jumped into the emerging internet industry, joining DoubleClick as one of the company’s first dozen or so employees, initially as chief financial officer and later rising to chief executive. He left DoubleClick in 2005, two years before Google bought it.“I came to New York because it was an international city,” Mr. Ryan said. “I stayed because I thought it was going to be a tech city as well.”The latter took a while. Tech investors often suggested he would be better off starting businesses in Silicon Valley, especially when he and two other DoubleClick alumni, Dwight Merriman and Eliot Horowitz, founded MongoDB in 2008. MongoDB, a database maker, grew slowly at first, but it has proved to be a commercial and financial success. Its stock is trading around $100 a share, up from its initial price of $24 when it went public in October 2017. It is now worth more than $5 billion.Embracing failure as a learning laboratory is another feature of dynamic start-up economies. Mr. Ryan saw that up close with the Gilt Groupe.Gilt, an e-commerce site that offered luxury goods in online flash sales, raised a lot of money, grew quickly and then fell. In 2016, Gilt was sold to Hudson’s Bay, parent company of Saks Fifth Avenue, for $250 million, less than the venture funding Gilt raised.“We never figured out how to make a profitable business out of flash sales — no one has,” said Mr. Ryan, a founder of Gilt. Last year, Gilt was sold to Rue La La, an e-commerce site, for a fraction of the price Hudson’s Bay paid.But in 2013, a group of Gilt alumni, including Mr. Ryan, took what they had learned and started Zola, a wedding-planning site. Its online gift registry and other services have been used by more than half a million couples, and the start-up raised $100 million last May.Zola’s payroll has tripled in the last two years, to 155 people, and two-thirds of them are women. There are teams in operations, finance, marketing, merchandising and logistics at its offices in Lower Manhattan. Yet the largest single group, about a quarter of the total, is the engineering staff.For Zola, New York offers access to the talent and expertise in the city’s large fashion, design and retail industries. Its co-founder and chief executive, Shan-Lyn Ma, a Stanford M.B.A. and former product manager at Yahoo, marvels at how much the tech scene has changed since she moved to the city a decade ago.“The biggest thing is the sheer number of people and the amount of experience people have in tech now,” Ms. Ma said. “Now, you just step out onto the street and you hear tech product discussions all the time.”Drawn to the CityWhen Maria Samuel graduated from Georgia Institute of Technology with a degree in industrial and systems engineering, she was recruited by Apple and Google. She had been coding since the ninth grade and had worked in seven programming languages. As an intern at NASA in Houston, she worked with a team planning Mars missions.But Ms. Samuel accepted an offer from Goldman Sachs, joining the investment bank in 2015.A product manager, she works with a team to develop software for market analysis, client communication and trading. She views financial markets as a window into industries, markets and behavior. “Every day, I’m constantly learning,” she said.After the financial crisis, graduates with computing skills shunned Wall Street for Silicon Valley. But that is no longer the case, as the finance industry is attracting young talent and seasoned technologists. Last year, for example, JPMorgan Chase lured Apoorv Saxena, a senior A.I. product manager at Google, to lead the bank’s A.I. product development, and Manuela Veloso from Carnegie Mellon University to head an A.I. research team.For Ms. Samuel, 25, the job was appealing, but so was the locale. New York is where many of her friends have come to start their careers. And Ms. Samuel, who sang in a choir and an a cappella group in college, describes herself as a “big Broadway geek.”For most recent graduates, the financial meltdown a decade ago is a distant memory. Today, it is not Wall Street but the big tech companies, like Facebook and Google, that are under fire. Their business models, based on gathering consumer data and targeted ads, have put them at the center of global concerns about privacy and false news.That is a recruiting opportunity these days for R. Martin Chavez, a senior partner at Goldman Sachs, who is also a computer scientist with a Ph.D. from Stanford. At recruiting events, his pitch is to say Google and Facebook have done “amazing things” and quickly add: “If you want to work on advertising, that’s where you should go. If you want to use math and software to solve hard problems for governments, corporations and other institutions, you should come to Goldman Sachs.”As the New York tech sector grows, policymakers and executives hope to broaden its reach beyond Manhattan and the affluent portions of Brooklyn. Fred Wilson, an investor and venture capitalist in New York for more than three decades, saw a warning sign in the protests in Long Island City, Queens, over the news that Amazon had planned to move in.“That’s partly from a sense that it’s not going to help them, and only drive up their costs,” Mr. Wilson said of the community. “To really be a success in New York, the benefits of the tech sector have to extend to every borough and every neighborhood.”Deborah Estrin was the first non-Cornell computer scientist to join the Cornell Tech faculty in 2012. Ms. Estrin was at the University of California, Los Angeles, and not looking to move. But she read the Cornell Tech proposal, and its emphasis on applied technology resonated.Ms. Estrin says that New York’s advantage is its concentration of people in other industries working on problems that require technology to solve.“If you’re doing pure tech — a superfast chip or advanced systems software — Silicon Valley is still the place to be,” she said. “But when it comes to everything else, New York really has a chance to be the place to be.”One Wall Street, a 50-story Art Deco skyscraper completed in 1931, is being carved into 566 condos and retail space. With prices averaging $3 million, it will likely draw bankers, tech executives and members of the New York’s swelling plutocracy. But until its doors open in 2020, it is the temporary home for some 400 workers, most of them in construction, who spend their days feeding the city’s building boom. Here’s what eight of them wore under their hard hats. Joseph PetroneAge: 42Occupation: shop stewardWhy is there a “no rat” sticker on your hat? In the basements of the buildings and stuff. I’m not a big fan of them.It has nothing to do with rats, like non-union labor?You could take it both ways, but it’s not really for that purpose.Tell me how you suit up for work.You always dress warm in renovation projects because the of the open areas. I wear Timberlands, which is standard.Jeans?Typical work jeans. Gap or Levi’s. These are insulated so you don’t have to wear long johns underneath. And then a vest and a sweatshirt, from Carhartt. T-shirt and long-sleeve shirt.That’s a lot of laundry.It’s a lot of laundry for the wife, not for me.Jose VillanuevaAge: 19Occupation: apprentice carpenterWhat have you built?Different stuff. I built a table, doors. I’ve protected windows.Are you wearing two sweatshirts?Yeah. The outer one is high-vis clothing, so anyone can see me coming.Your T-shirt underneath is orange too. Did you do that on purpose?Yeah, so if it gets hot I can take my sweatshirt off and still have high-vis underneath.What’s under your hood?It’s a do-rag, to keep my head warm. You can get them at any pharmacy where I live in the Bronx.Are your Carhartt pants for warmth, too?And they have a lot of pockets that I can put my tools in. My knife, pencils, snips.Michael BerasAge: 36Occupation: laborer, Local 79What’s your job?As a laborer, you got to make sure that everything is tight, clean. See there’s nothing in your way that you could fall and crack your head open, nothing like that.What do you wear on your feet?These are Wolverines. Steel toe. You want to step on them? Go ahead. Jump on ’em.How do you dress for work in the winter?Layers, layers, layers. You can’t put on a big bubble coat and come to work.What are your shirt layers?I got an Under Armour shirt, I got a long john, I got a flannel with the wool inside, and I got a hoodie. I got them from Amazon. It’s the easiest.Do you prefer to work in the winter or summer?Doesn’t matter.Why not?You’ve got to get paid.Majorie AlvarezAge: 36Occupation: laborerDoes your jacket keep you warm?Sí.And where do you get it?Macy’s.How many layers total?Three. And a hat.And are you gloves for warmth, too, or protection?For work.Cary LevyAge: 47Occupation: construction logistics manager, J.T. Magen & CompanyHow do you dress for work?I think about comfort, warmth, somewhat professional looking.Where do you get your nice gingham shirt?I have to say, my wife got it for me.Do you know where she gets them?I’m not sure. Maybe J. Crew or Banana Republic.Where did you get your shoes?I don’t know.Your watch is not subtle.It’s a G-Shock. It can take the punches on a construction site. I can smash it into the brick. I might injure myself, but the watch will be fine.What do you put in your little notebook?It’s a large construction site. There’s a lot going on, a lot to remember.Billy MurphyAge: 51Occupation: construction superintendentWhat does a super do?We direct the trades and bring the job in at a particular time, and really manage the job from start to finish. Before this, I was in the computer field for 15 years.How do you get dressed for work?You have to have proper shoes, pants, warm jacket. Our company gave us these Helly Hansen ones. Under that I wear a hoodie and two or three layers. Today it’s 50 degrees so I leave the hoodie hanging up in my locker.Where do you pick up your cargo pants?Modell’s. They’re cheap, they’re lined, 20 bucks. When you’re finished with them, just throw them out.Lilla SmithAge: “Over 50”Occupation: architect, properties director, Macklowe PropertiesHow’s everything going?I’m glad to say we’re making some forward progress.What do you wear on site visits?The most important thing on a construction site is what you wear on your feet. Today I went with Italian boots. They’re Gravati. You do not want to have something penetrate the bottom of your foot.Where did you get your jacket from?The one underneath is Akris. It’s like a biker jacket.What about your scarf?It’s Paul Stuart. The jacket too. It’s old, like 25 years old. My whole paycheck back then. And then some.What’s your watch?It’s a Rolex. Simple. Very architectural.Was that your second paycheck?Yes.George RoundtreeAge: 52Occupation: head of securityYour look is almost paramilitary.Actually it is paramilitary. This is a protective vest. Level 3 Kevlar.Who’s going to shoot at you down here?You never know. We’re posted out front. These guys outside the stock exchange, they’re dressed the same way.Where do you get your boots?Tactical boots, ordered from paramilitary sites. I don’t want to promote anybody, but I do use Condor.And a thermal under your vest?This is dry wear, pulls sweat off, retains body heat. On top is a shirt that salutes my favorite football team, the Patriots.Is it tough being a Pats fan on a New York City construction site?Absolutely. All day I get nothing but Jets and Giants fans coming at me.The interviews have been edited and condensed.The future isn’t as wireless as we were promised. Whether you’re looking for a second charger for your phone or need a new video cable for your home theater, you need cords you can trust.Unfortunately, when you’re shopping for cables and chargers of any kind — from phone chargers to home theater equipment — your search results will inevitably be flooded with low-quality brands that either cut corners to keep prices low or use marketing jargon to confuse you into paying more. To save you some time when you’re doing your research, we checked with the experts at Wirecutter, the New York Times company that reviews products, and rounded up a few brands you can generally trust to make high-quality products at a lower price point.First, a few things to watch forFor the most part, cables only really have one job: transfer information or power from one place to another. There are few things an expensive cable does better than a cheaper one. However, there are still a few distinguishing features to watch for when you’re cable shopping, depending on your needs. Here are a few tips:Check reviews on USB-C cables. Because of a change in the way that USB-C cables charge devices, it’s possible for a manufacturer to cut corners and create a cable that can physically damage your devices. The problem can be so bad that a Google engineer spent his free time reviewing individual cables for safety. We’ll recommend some generally safe ones, but if you’re not buying from the brands below, always check the reviews.Pick the right fast charger for your phone. Generic fast chargers can be cheaper than the ones your phone manufacturer sells, but they’re not all compatible with each other. We have a bit more information on how to find the right fast charger here. The brands below offer a variety of fast chargers, but it’s always worth checking to ensure they work with your phone.Get high-bandwidth USB cables only if you need them. If you have a 4K HDR TV, you’ll need cables that can support the bandwidth. These cables are usually branded with “High-Speed” or “Premium Certified” labels. These cables are growing increasingly common, and almost any HDMI cable will work for regular HDTVs, but if you’re upgrading your home theater, make sure the cable is rated for 4K and HDR. When it comes to USB cables, it’s even more important to find the right cable speeds. If you need a cable for a portable hard drive, get a USB 3.0 cable that can handle higher data transfer speeds. For charging your phone, cheaper USB 2.0 cables will be fine.Outside of these few distinguishing features, there’s not much you need to look for in a cable or charger. If a company advertises something crazy like gold plated connectors or “nitrogen injected dielectric gas,” it’s usually marketing hype to try to convince you there’s a reason to spend more than a few bucks on a cable. AmazonBasicsJust as retailers like Walmart and Target have their own store brand versions of various products, Amazon has its own line called AmazonBasics to cover your everyday needs. You can get AmazonBasics versions of everything from dinner plates to office chairs at relatively low prices. You could probably get something better from another company, but if you just want something that does the job, Amazon’s own brand is usually reliable.Where it really stands out, though, is in cables and chargers. The AmazonBasics line includes HDMI cables, lightning cables, micro USB cables, USB-C cables, and all the other essentials you need for charging your phone or tablet, hooking up your home theater or connecting your desktop computer. You can generally trust them to at least be wired properly and not damage your equipment. As Wirecutter contributor Geoff Morrison explained, “A company like Amazon isn’t going to put out something that doesn’t work. It’d be too expensive and damaging to the brand.”When it comes to HDMI cables, though, Wirecutter chose AmazonBasics as its top pick. Other cables are at least serviceable. Best of all, they’re cheap enough that buying replacements is trivial. You could buy a $35 cable that promises to be “durable” and last a while, but when that same $35 could buy you seven AmazonBasics cables, it’s hard to justify the extra cost.AnkerLike AmazonBasics, Anker sells a selection of micro USB, USB-C, and Lightning cables to charge your phone. The company doesn’t sell as many home theater or desktop cables, but it does have a wide array of chargers for your phones and tablets. You can find wireless fast charging stands, USB car chargers, fast charging wall blocks, and portable power banks.Better yet, Anker has a reputation for being reliable. Wirecutter editor Mark Smirniotis explained that if you’re looking for an accessory that’s less expensive than the official ones, but more reliable than the dirt cheap, no-name brands, Anker is one of your best bets.“The middle ground is held by companies like Anker or RAVPower — less expensive than official accessories, but well-made and well-supported,” he said. “Anker has been around for well over five years now, and Wirecutter has tested and reviewed dozens — maybe hundreds — of their products. We see that both companies put a lot of thought into their designs and update them regularly. In our own long-term testing and reviews of reader experiences, we’ve also found that they’re well-made and generally reliable.”When Wirecutter has reviewed categories that Anker has an entry for, the brand regularly at least gets a runner-up slot, if not the top choice. While it doesn’t hurt to check around for the specific product you need if you want the absolute best, if you’re buying Anker there’s a higher than average chance you’re getting a product that works well.MonopriceLike Anker, Monoprice sells more than just cables. The company sells home theater equipment, smart home accessories, networking gear and a lot more. It’s also been around and selling off-brand accessories since 2002, giving it a strong leg up on some of the competition. Some of their gear is high quality at a low price, from these subwoofers to these banana plugs, both of which earned top marks from Wirecutter. They also found that Monoprice’s HDMI cables were just as good as AmazonBasics, but slightly cheaper. Mr. Morrison, author of the site’s guide to cheap HDMI cables, lauded the cable selection. “Monoprice has been around for many years and nearly every cable in my theater is from them,” he said.However, Monoprice has been around long enough and has a big enough product library that there are bound to be some stinkers. When Wirecutter reviewed earbuds under $50, several Monoprice headphones came up short. Wirecutter staff editor Nick Guy also suggests paying close attention to what you’re buying from Monoprice.“Stock levels can be inconsistent, to start. It’s not uncommon to see a product listed as out of stock with a return date several weeks in the future,” he said. “Monoprice also has a habit of quietly swapping out commodity accessories like cables with newer models. While that new model still might be a good buy, it may not be the same model that was listed last week.”For basic products like cables, adapters and chargers, Monoprice’s products are generally reliable, but you might want to comparison shop a bit to make sure you’re getting the best deal. If you’re going to move up to bigger, more important home theater, networking, or smart home accessories, Monoprice can be good, but we still recommend checking out additional reviews first.What to Buy is a new series in collaboration with Wirecutter, the New York Times Company that reviews products. Want buying advice from the experts, or need help picking out the right thing for the right job? Email Smarter Living editor Alan Henry, at alan.henry@nytimes.com, and we’ll look into it for you!Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Macy’s is closing stores. So are J. C. Penney, Family Dollar, Payless ShoeSource, Victoria’s Secret and Gap. On the flip side, Walmart and Target just reported their best sales growth in more than a decade.America’s retail industry is divided. As earnings season continues, it is becoming clear just how divided.On one side are the companies that have worked out online strategies to compete with Amazon, while also finding the right mix of products and services, like selling groceries, to keep shoppers coming into their stores.Amazon is still by far the leader in e-commerce, but Walmart, Target and Best Buy especially are increasingly challenging its dominance in online sales. They are using their physical stores to fulfill online orders — catering to shoppers’ demands for instant gratification — and increasing their digital promotions.Those efforts paid off in 2018, particularly during the holiday season. Walmart and Target just reported their best comparable year-over-year sales growth since before the financial crisis, bolstered in part by the growth of their online operations.Walmart’s digital revenue rose 40 percent last year, and the company is now the third-largest online retailer in the United States, according to data from eMarketer. Target’s e-commerce revenue increased nearly as much, and the company said that about 75 percent of its online sales during the fourth quarter were fulfilled in stores. Best Buy’s turnaround maintained its momentum in 2018. The electronics retailer’s comparable sales growth the past two years is its highest in more than a decade.The three companies also benefited from the struggles and store closings of retailers like Toys “R” Us and Sears.Then there are the laggards.Investors had high hopes for department stores like Macy’s, Kohl’s, J. C. Penney and Nordstrom last year. The economy was strong, consumer confidence was high, and shoppers had extra money to spend as a result of the tax cuts.Shares of the four department store chains rose more than 30 percent in the first half of the year, before they succumbed to a broad market sell-off. But the results they have reported recently show that some of the early hopes reflected in the stock increases were premature.The chains’ performance is tied in part to the struggling malls that their stores often anchor. Many of those shopping centers have been hollowed out in recent years and have failed to keep up with the changing tastes and buying habits of American consumers.J. C. Penney reported declining sales for the holiday season, while Macy’s warned that its sales are unlikely to increase much in the year ahead. Both companies also announced additional store closings.Sales for two mall stalwarts, Gap and L Brands, the parent company of Victoria’s Secret, also fell short of Wall Street’s forecasts, and the pair announced more store closings.Nordstrom reported that comparable sales at its full-price stores had declined 1.6 percent. But the company’s results were lifted by another shift among consumers: a growing move toward discount chains. Comparable sales at Nordstrom Rack, the company’s off-price store, rose 4 percent.One department store chain has managed to avoid the gloom. Kohl’s same-store sales and forecast for the year ahead beat Wall Street’s expectations. Why? A partnership with Amazon to sell the Echo and other products from the e-commerce giant while allowing Amazon customers to return purchases to Kohl’s stores.The Food and Drug Administration on Monday  accused Walgreens, one of the largest drugstore chains in the United States, of repeatedly selling tobacco products to minors in violation of federal law and requested a meeting with top executives to discuss the problem.The agency said its undercover inspection program had turned up high rates of tobacco violations at numerous retailers. Illegal sales of cigarettes and e-cigarettes to young people were even higher at other national gas station and convenience store chains, the agency found, but it singled out Walgreens for its harshest criticism. “The company’s stores have racked up almost 1,800 violations across the country,” said Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the agency’s commissioner, in a statement. “Both the rate of violations and sheer volume of violative inspections of Walgreens stores are disturbing, particularly since the company positions itself as a health-and-wellness-minded business.” Dr. Gottlieb said that Walgreens, one of the nation’s largest retail drugstore chains, was the top violator among pharmacies that sell tobacco products, with 22 percent of more than 6,350 stores the F.D.A. inspected having illegally sold them to youth. “This cannot possibly come as a surprise to corporate leadership,” said Dr. Gottlieb. “Ignoring the law and then paying associated fines and penalties should not simply be viewed as a cost of doing business.” Jim Cohn, a spokesman for Walgreens, said the company welcomed a meeting with the F.D.A. Mr. Cohn said the company requires age verification in all of its stores, and that any employee caught selling tobacco products to minors is immediately fired. In addition, Mr. Cohn said that Walgreens has lowered the visibility of tobacco products in certain stores, and has trained all pharmacists and technicians to support customers who want to quit. Walgreens stock closed slightly lower in trading Monday.The agency’s announcement said that the companies with the highest rate of illegal sales to youths were Marathon, Exxon, Sunoco, BP, Citgo and Mobil, where violations were found at between 35 and 44 percent of all inspected stores. Inspectors found illegal sales rates of between 25 and 34 percent at Shell, Chevron, Casey’s General Stores and 7-Eleven. Family Dollar, Kroger, Circle K and Walmart were in the same category as Walgreens, with a violation rate of between 15 and 24 percent. The F.D.A. warned these companies of future enforcement actions, and asked them to submit plans to stop tobacco sales to youth.“Because tobacco use is almost always initiated and established during adolescence, early intervention — including making sure tobacco products aren’t being marketed to, sold to, or used by kids — is critical,” Dr. Gottlieb said.  EBay said on Friday that it would consider selling the ticket-sales service StubHub, its classified advertising unit and other assets in a potential revamping of the online retailer meant to appease restive shareholders.The company also said that it would add three new directors to its board, and that it had reached agreements with the activist hedge funds Elliott Management and Starboard Value, which have been pressing management for an overhaul.As part of the strategic review of its portfolio, eBay suggested, it will closely examine its core marketplace business and consider unwinding some expansions into adjacent businesses.The move comes amid shareholders’ dismay over the stagnant performance of eBay’s stock over the past several years. The company’s shares had fallen about 17 percent in the 12 months before Elliott and Starboard unveiled their ownership stakes in January.Among shareholders’ main concerns is the way Amazon has used its dominance in online retailing to muscle its way into eBay’s core marketplace business.EBay has bowed to pressure from activist investors before. Three years ago, it agreed to spin off its PayPal payments business in the face of criticism from Carl Icahn, who said the company was among the worst-run he had ever seen.EBay insists it has already embarked on investor-friendly initiatives, including introducing a quarterly dividend and committing to returning $7 billion to shareholders over the next two years. It said on Friday that it had also streamlined its international operations and taken steps to increase advertising revenue.The settlements announced Friday head off what could have been an arduous board fight led by Elliott and Starboard, two of the biggest and most successful activist hedge funds. Elliott owns a roughly 4 percent stake in eBay; Starboard owns about 1 percent.In a letter to eBay’s board in January, Elliott urged the company to consider selling StubHub and the classifieds business, saying such transactions could bring in more than $16 billion.EBay made no commitment on Friday to selling any of its businesses, and it appears unlikely to act on another Elliott proposal: selling its core marketplace business to a private equity firm or another online retailer.“We see tremendous opportunity ahead and want to see eBay’s full potential realized over the long-term,” Devin Wenig, eBay’s chief executive, said in a statement.As part of the settlement, eBay agreed to add as new directors Jesse Cohn, the Elliott partner who led the hedge fund’s campaign, and Matt Murphy, the chief executive of Marvell Technology. The third new director will be added later this year.“We are confident that the initiatives announced today will drive meaningful shareholder value,” Mr. Cohn said in a statement.SAN FRANCISCO — Big wealth doesn’t come in monthly paychecks. It comes when a start-up goes public, transforming hypothetical money into extremely real money. This year — with Uber, Lyft, Slack, Postmates, Pinterest and Airbnb all hoping to enter the public markets — there’s going to be a lot of it in the Bay Area.Estimates of Uber’s value on the market have been as high as $120 billion. Airbnb was most recently valued at $31 billion, with Lyft and Pinterest around $15 billion and $12 billion. It’s anyone’s guess what prices these companies actually will command once they go public, but even conservative estimates predict hundreds of billions of dollars will flood into town in the next year, creating thousands of new millionaires. It’s hard to imagine more money in San Francisco, but the city’s residents now need to start trying.Welcomed finally into the elite caste who can afford to live comfortably in the Bay Area, the fleet of new millionaires are already itching to claim what has been promised all these years.They want cars. They want to open new restaurants. They want to throw bigger parties. And they want houses.One recent night, in a packed room with a view of the Bay Bridge and an open bar, real estate investors gathered. Standing at the front presenting was Deniz Kahramaner, a real estate agent specializing in data analytics at Compass.“Are we going to see a one-bedroom condo that’s worth less than $1 million in five years?” he asked the crowd. “Are we going to see single family homes selling for one to three million?”No, he said, not anymore. The energy rose as he revealed more data about new millionaires and about just how few new units have been built for them. San Francisco single-family home sale prices could climb to an average of $5 million, he said, to gasps.[Sign up for California Today, our newsletter for Californians and people who care about California.]“All cash. These are all cash buyers,” he said. “It’s just going to be astounding.”Now, seemingly the whole city — and not just the financial planners and the real estate agents and the protesters who block tech buses — is scrambling to prepare.Housing MadnessAs the idea of the coming I.P.O.-palooza took on currency, sellers started pulling their houses off the market. The broader California housing market has softened, and home sales are down, but here’s one fix for that. “Even if just half the I.P.O.s happen, there’s going to be ten thousand millionaires overnight,” said Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaires everywhere left and right.’”One of those is his client Rick Rider, a 61-year-old C.E.O. who decided not to publicly list his Bay Area house until some of the I.P.O.s have happened.“Our particular house is not a family home. It’s a Double Income No Kids sort of home,” Mr. Rider said. “So it would potentially play well for a lot of the people that would be benefiting from the I.P.O.s.”The spending wars will likely stay close to work. “The millennial tech workers are really looking for convenience,” said Christine Kim, the president of Climb Real Estate. “They seem to not want to own cars, and food deliveries are really easy now, and they want to be close to entertainment, so they’ll stay in the city.”When Google in Mountain View and Facebook in Menlo Park went public, their workers were spread across the Bay Area, and so the impact on housing was diffuse. Now, many of the biggest start-ups are based in San Francisco, in part thanks to the city’s tax breaks. Brokers say San Francisco is where the workers want to stay.In 2018 there were 5,644 properties sold in San Francisco and only 2,208 of those were single family homes. Software employees represent more than 50 percent of those buying, according to Compass. One real estate firm estimates an average one-bedroom in the city now rents for $3,690 per month. (Another firm puts that average at $3,551.)“Now you’ve got all these I.P.O.s at the same time, and we’ll potentially have thousands of young people, all now with money, looking to buy homes,” said Shane Ray, a real estate agent. “You’ll be able to feel it.”Those in the market for a house are trying to buy them fast while the inventory shrinks but before the wave hits.“I had this sense of existential dread that if we didn’t buy before all the I.P.O.s, we would forever be priced out,” said Tom McLeod, the founder of storage start-up Omni, who has been renting for nearly a decade. “We ended up pulling the trigger.”Don’t Buy BoatsCompanies instill in their employees a belief that stock only goes up. At this point, a decade since their founding, start-ups like Uber and Airbnb have been asking their employees to hold that faith for a long time. Now, wealth managers are hoping to rattle the religious.Ryan S. Cole, a private wealth adviser at Citrine Capital, said he has started getting an influx of new clients who are preparing for wealth. He is worried. This generation of the start-up wealthy seem especially bullish on their company’s success.“We’ve been trying to get them to exercise a little more caution, just because they’re so excited,” Mr. Cole said. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn.”He cautions that no one can be sure how well a stock will do. A company like Uber is still dramatically unprofitable, he tries to remind his clients. So many I.P.O.s turn out to be busts. Groupon opened around $26 a share and now trades around $3; Snap opened around $27 and now trades at $9.“A lot of them are young — they’ve just seen their valuations going up forever and they don’t really understand that tech stocks are volatile,” Mr. Cole said. “And they have their managers painting especially rosy pictures of where the company is headed to get them to work harder.”Mostly, he just urges his clients not to spend too much yet.“They shouldn’t be buying boats,” Mr. Cole said. “We see a little bit of that.” Electric bikes, on the other hand, are a favorite mode of transportation for the San Francisco tech worker. Owners of the electric bike shop New Wheel say they are preparing for the I.P.O.s by ordering 30 percent more of the Stromer ST3 — the most popular configuration retails for around $7,500 — and 200 percent more of the Riese & Muller front-loader bikes, which sell for around $9,500. Michael Biggica, the founder of Pixel Financial Planning, said 2019 is the year of “pent-up demand” and that the excitement of a windfall can be intoxicating.“My role is eliminating that emotion,” Mr. Biggica said.Jonathan K. DeYoe, another private wealth adviser in the region, started working with tech clients in 1997 during the first dot-com boom. He said it was pretty exciting back then. Now, as he thinks about thousands of new millionaires coming onto the scene, he is worried about the region’s inequality.“There’s some who’ve talked about pitchforks,” Mr. DeYoe said. “And I don’t think we’ll go there, but there’s a point when that makes sense.”“It’s very visible,” Mr. DeYoe said. “This kind of wealth is very visible.”Party CityIn cities like Oakland and Berkeley and San Francisco, millennials obsess over Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Twitter and attend Democratic Socialists of America meetings. But the socialist passion doesn’t seem to have impacted the city’s zeal for I.P.O. parties, which the party planning community says are going to surpass past booms.Jay Siegan, a former live music club owner who now curates private entertainment and music, is gearing up. He has worked on events for many of the I.P.O. hopefuls, including Uber, Airbnb, Slack, Postmates and Lyft.“We see multiple parties per I.P.O. for the company that is I.P.O.ing, as well as firms that are associated to them,” Mr. Siegan said. Budgets for start-up parties, he said, can easily go above $10 million. “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives. They want ballet performers.”A popular new feature he’s noticing is clients hoping to curate their own theme concerts featuring fleets of bands. Mr. Siegan says he put on one for a 1980s loving tech executive, featuring the B-52s, Devo, The Bangles, Tears for Fears and Flock of Seagulls.In a warehouse in Concord, Calif., the I.P.O. ice sculptor is getting ready to staff up for what he says will be a long year.“It’s going to be a lot of 14-hour days,” said Robert Chislett, founder of Chisel-it, who has around 15 ice sculptors currently employed.Together, they have chiseled a full-size ice car for a tech executive’s party in Atherton and a 10-foot ice Taj Mahal for another’s swimming pool in San Jose. But, he says, I.P.O.ing executives usually want predictable things. An ice chair with the logo on the back, for photos. A lot of logos carved into ice rockets, to indicate that the company’s stock will be like a rocket. And ice cubes, for drinks, with the company logo on each one.To the Barricades and Back AgainAnd of course, the tech backlash, mostly quiet as stocks have vested, is preparing for its own revival.At Radio Habana Social Club in the Mission district, housing rights activists gathered one recent evening for a drink. By now, there is a well-known choreography: the cash comes flooding in to a few and the stock-less masses begin to gather. They will protest evictions, fight developers, organize against tax breaks and unfurl banners in front of tech buses.“It’s going to mean mass displacement,” said Sarah “Fred” Sherburn-Zimmer, the executive director of the Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco, of the coming wealth influx.She paused for a moment. “It feels like the same game,” she said. Activists stood elbow-to-elbow around a table of hummus and pepper jack cheese. “We’ve lived through boom times before,” said Maria Zamudio, the group’s associate director. “We’ve learned our lessons. We know what a massive influx of money looks like. Concessions we made in the past, we will not make this year.”Good Thursday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Big questions over Facebook’s privacy pivotFacebook plans to start shifting people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business has been built, Mike Isaac of the NYT reports:• Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that the company “would focus on private and encrypted communications, in which users message mostly smaller groups of people they know.”• “Unlike publicly shared posts that are kept as users’ permanent records, the communications could also be deleted after a certain period of time.”• “He said Facebook would achieve the shift partly by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger so that users worldwide could easily message one another across the networks.”• That, Mr. Zuckerberg said, would make Facebook a “living room,” rather than a “town square.”Facebook’s declining public perception, fueled by fake news and data privacy scandals, is driving the shift. “Frankly we don’t currently have a strong reputation for building privacy protective services,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. To grow, and roll out new technologies like its reported cryptocurrency, the company needs to regain trust.But plenty of questions remain:• What’s the business model? Most of the company’s current profits come from openly sharing content and displaying targeted ads, which doesn’t fit with the privacy push. Mr. Zuckerberg argued that there were “all kinds of different commerce opportunities” available in a shift to privacy, but didn’t elaborate.• Should its platforms be integrated? It’s not clear that users want Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger to be combined. And Facebook could find itself facing allegations of anti-competitive behavior by tying them together.• When will it happen? Mr. Zuckerberg had promised to improve Facebook’s privacy in the past and then was painfully slow to act. (A “Clear History” tool announced last year still hasn’t arrived.)____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Huawei sues the U.S., citing Constitutional violationsHuawei sued the U.S. government yesterday over a ban on government agencies using the Chinese telecom giant’s products because they could violate American national security.The U.S. says Huawei products are a security threat, and could be used by Chinese authorities to spy on telecom networks — though it has yet to produce supporting evidence. Washington has pushed wireless carriers to avoid using the company’s equipment, and urged other countries to follow suit.The lawsuit will force Washington to show its hand. “The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement.Huawei also claims it’s being unfairly singled out in an unconstitutional bill of attainder — where legislation singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial. Mr. Guo said that Congress was acting as “judge, jury and executioner.”But the strategy is risky. Its business practices and relationship with Beijing will be put under the microscope. And legal experts say the lawsuit on its own is unlikely to succeed: The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab lost a similar lawsuit two years ago.Washington eases its big bank rulesFederal regulators plan to roll back regulations on the country’s largest banks and financial firms, making it easier for them to gain approval to raise dividends or buy back their shares.The Fed will reboot its “stress tests” that banks undergo each year. In particular, the Fed won’t give “pass” or “fail” grades for the portion of the tests that measure banks’ ability to keep lending during an economic crisis.Big non-bank firms will also get an easier ride. A federal oversight panel will scrap the “systemically important financial institution” designation, which subjects non-bank firms like insurers and asset managers to intrusive oversight. (It’s largely symbolic: Only four firms had been labeled systemically important and all have successfully argued to shed that status.)This is part of the Trump administration’s effort to relax financial regulations imposed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Officials have sided with the banking industry in arguing that Obama-era rules stifled lenders’ ability to make loans and continue to grow.But critics say it’s risky, and could lead to a less safe, less transparent financial system. Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets, a financial industry watchdog, told the NYT, “The markets are not going to have the full picture.”America’s trade deficit breaks a recordPresident Trump’s aggressive fights over trade are driven by a desire to narrow America’s trade deficit, which he sees as a sign of partners taking advantage of the U.S. But the gap between imports and exports has actually widened, leaving the U.S. with a record trade deficit of $891.3 billion, Jim Tankersley and Ana Swanson of the NYT write:• “The increase was driven by some factors outside Mr. Trump’s control, like a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the United States dollar, both of which weakened overseas demand for American goods.”• “But the widening gap was also exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut,” they add, “and the trade war he escalated last year.”• “Economists have long warned that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts would ultimately exacerbate a trade deficit he has vowed to reduce, as Americans, flush with extra cash, bought more imported goods.”• “By his own metric, the president is failing to right America’s global trading relationships.”But economists aren’t panicking. “I’d rather live in a country that capital is trying to get into, rather than get out of,” Larry Summers, who led the National Economic Council under President Barack Obama, told the NYT. “The reason we have a trade deficit is people are investing in America.”The E.U. wants new Brexit ideas, fastOfficials in Brussels have reportedly asked Prime Minister Theresa May to offer new proposals that would convince British lawmakers to back her Brexit deal within the next 48 hours, the BBC reports.“E.U. officials said they would work nonstop over the weekend if ‘acceptable’ ideas were received by Friday to break the deadlock” over issues tied to the Irish border, which have been the main sticking point, according to the broadcaster.But the U.K. has said it already put up “reasonable” proposals to satisfy lawmaker’s concerns about being tied to E.U. rules. (That said, Mrs. May has reportedly outlined steps “to develop technology to keep the Irish border open after Brexit” in the event of no deal, Bloomberg reports.)Unsurprisingly, the E.U. is pessimistic. “There’s increasing concern on the European side that any concessions the bloc would be prepared to give wouldn’t be sufficient to win a majority in the House of Commons,” according to Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources.More: Toyota says it might stop manufacturing cars in Britain in the event of a no-deal Brexit. And the O.E.C.D. has warned that a no-deal departure could cause a recession in the country.Are leveraged loans a global threat?The Financial Stability Board will examine whether the $1.4 billion market for leveraged loans — those made to companies with low credit ratings or high debt loads — poses a risk to the global markets, Sam Fleming of the FT reports.• The F.S.B. will focus on collateralized loan obligations, which are bundles of leveraged loans that are sold off in tranches. The regulator “wants to identify the holders of C.L.O.s around the world and assess the risks that investors could pull money from exposed institutions during a severe downturn,” the FT writes.• Investors in C.L.O.s include banks, investment funds and insurers.• Randy Quarles, the chairman of the F.S.B., told the FT, “From a financial stability risk [point of view] we need to know more about that than we do, and we have set up a process at the F.S.B. to understand that.”• “Companies have been amassing cheap loans thanks to low interest rates and loosening lending standards, and in the U.S. nonfinancial corporate debt is now a higher share of gross domestic product than before the crisis,” Mr. Fleming writes.How HBO repeatedly failed to stop NetflixAT&T is rushing to overhaul HBO, and the rest of what was Time Warner, to fight back against Netflix. But Bloomberg Businessweek has taken a look at how the “Game of Thrones” network and its parent company missed opportunities to dominate the streaming wars in the past:• In 1999, HBO’s chief information officer, Michael Gabriel, asked Jeff Bewkes, then the network’s C.E.O., how he wanted to reckon with the internet. “Bewkes wanted HBO to be all in on the internet when the time was right, Gabriel says, but he didn’t want to spend too much money or be premature,” Businessweek reports.• In 2007, “An idea spread through HBO: What if Time Warner bought Netflix? It would be the perfect marriage of art and science and give Time Warner enormous leverage over the downstream markets for TV shows and movies. The concept made its way up the chain of command, where it was duly slain.”• “In a December 2010 New York Times interview, Bewkes, who by then was overseeing all of Time Warner as C.E.O., weighed in on his competitor. ‘It’s a little bit like, Is the Albanian army going to take over the world?’ he said. ‘I don’t think so.’ ”• In the spring of 2014, HBO licensed its older shows to Amazon’s streaming service, giving the network fat fees. But, Businessweek reports, HBO’s in-house streaming team was upset at the arrangement. “Training people to go to Amazon Prime Video to watch classic HBO shows, they worried, could undermine the appeal of HBO’s own internet offerings.”• “HBO still doesn’t have much control over a key aspect of the direct-to-consumer streaming experience — the consumer.”Revolving doorMike Turner will resign as a director of Barclays.The law firm Sullivan & Cromwell has hired James Bromley from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton as a partner and co-head of its global restructuring group.Anne Dinning rejoined D.E. Shaw as a member of the hedge fund’s executive committee.Slate hired Jared Hohlt from New York magazine as its new editor in chief, succeeding Julia Turner.The speed readDeals• Aon won’t make a takeover bid for a rival insurance broker, Willis Towers Watson. (FT)• Sprint and T-Mobile have reportedly won the backing of the White House for their proposed merger, but have yet to win over the Justice Department or the F.C.C. (Fox Business)• Blackstone is reportedly close to raising $20 billion for its next big private equity fund. (Bloomberg)• Mario Batali has sold his stake in his restaurant empire to his business partners. (NYT)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen is said to have given the House Intelligence Committee evidence that shows President Trump’s lawyers made changes to a knowingly false written statement given to Congress. (NYT)• A House committee voted to advance a bill that would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024. (Axios)• Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, says he’s writing legislation that could prevent corporate insiders from selling shares within a certain time period after their companies announce a stock buyback. (CNBC)Tech• Congressional Democrats announced bills that would reinstate net neutrality rules. (Verge)• Facebook might be backing away from its plans to expand into China. (BuzzFeed News)• Just how likely to succeed is Tesla’s new online-only sales strategy? Also: The automaker is facing backlash in China from customers who won’t receive refunds to make up for new price cuts. (NYT, WSJ)• Amazon is closing its pop-up stores in the U.S., though it still has ambitious plans for physical retail. (NYT)Best of the rest• Meet Haven, the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase. (NYT)• The Fed says that the government shutdown slowed economic activity in some regions. (WSJ)• Carlos Ghosn is out of jail. What happens now? (NYT)• A ranking of the most visible brands in the U.S. placed the government bottom. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.In San Francisco, where start-ups dream of populating the world with self-driving cars and robots, another breed of company is aiming for riches this week: Levi Strauss & Company.The maker of denim and Dockers, which traces its roots to the California Gold Rush, Levi’s will start trading on the public markets on Thursday for the second time in its 165-year history. The listing is a milestone for Levi’s, which has experienced a resurgence in the past decade, overhauling its image, operations and the stretch in its jeans to resonate with today’s shoppers who are increasingly disposed to athleisure wear.Levi’s, some say, might even be cool again.“It took them time but they’ve been able to restore a lot of brand equity,” said Marie Driscoll, a managing director who covers fashion and luxury at Coresight Research. “They have their authentic product that they’ve been making forever but adapted to what consumers want today.”This week’s stock offering, which the company anticipates will raise more than $100 million, is an accomplishment for the chief executive, Charles V. Bergh, and highlights Levi’s ambitions to expand its apparel lines both in the United States and worldwide. Shares of the company are expected to sell for $14 to $16, which would value Levi’s between $5.4 billion and $6.2 billion.Levi’s, which invented the blue jean in 1873, is woven into America’s history. Once the uniform of cowboys and miners in the American West, the company’s denim went on to be worn by Hollywood stars like Marlon Brando, concertgoers at Woodstock and the young nationwide. But the company hit a series of challenges starting in the 1990s beyond the usual fluctuations in consumer tastes.New teenage retailers, streetwear companies and low-cost private labels started to eat into its market share. Designer jeans gained appeal on the high end. Then came stumbles from some of the department stores selling its goods. More recently, Levi’s has faced fresh competition from athleisure brands.While the company was bumping along, it began a full-fledged makeover in 2011 with the appointment of Mr. Bergh, who is known as Chip and joined Levi’s after nearly three decades at Procter & Gamble. Under him, sales have risen and the brand has been imbued with new energy. Its name is now on a sports stadium, it introduced lasers to distress its jeans and it opened a giant flagship store in Times Square.Now Levi’s — which falls between the Gap brand and Ralph Lauren in terms of sales — is looking to regain the sales it attained in the ’90s, when its revenue exceeded $7 billion.The company declined to comment for this article, citing restrictions ahead of its stock offering.Levi’s has a long history. Levi Strauss, who immigrated to the United States from Bavaria, set up shop in San Francisco in 1853 with a wholesale dry goods business. Twenty years later, he and a business partner received a patent for “waist overalls” with metal rivets at points of strain — a garment now known as the blue jean.“The reason they were patenting this, and a huge part of advertisements around that time, was that they made the pants more durable,” said Emma McClendon, associate curator of costume at the Museum at Fashion Institute of Technology. “So you could put tons of tools or things in your pockets while digging for gold, working on farms, all these things, and the pockets wouldn’t come apart from the jeans.”Jeans started to become mainstream garments in the 1920s and ’30s with the rise of Hollywood Westerns, dude ranch vacations and romanticized images of cowboys. In the ’60s, Levi’s became, in the words of Ms. McClendon, “the de facto uniform of the hippie,” increasing its broader popularity. Mr. Strauss died without children in 1902 and he left the company to his nephews. Family members have controlled the business ever since.The company first listed its shares in the 1970s, but was taken private in 1985 through a leveraged buyout led by descendants of Levi Strauss, the Haas family. They wanted to take a longer-term view of the business rather than focus on short-term results.Levi’s expects to sell $500 million to $675 million of stock in its return to the public markets. Much of the proceeds from the offering will go to the Haas family. The family will hold about 80 percent of the voting shares after the offering.Levi’s brought in $5.6 billion in sales last year with a net profit of $285 million. That’s an increase from the start of Mr. Bergh’s tenure — the year he joined the company, it had $4.8 billion in sales — but still well below its ’90s peak.Mr. Bergh, 61, was involved with the integration of Gillette after Procter & Gamble’s $57 billion acquisition of the brand in 2005 and has viewed the turnaround of Levi’s as his opportunity to leave a legacy.When he joined the business, he set out to address “very fundamental issues,” he said on a podcast last year, pointing to a stalled brand and debt-burdened balance sheet.“There wasn’t a clear strategy,” he said. “We hadn’t been investing in building the brand, we hadn’t been investing in innovation, we were really disconnected with the consumer, our advertising was not working.”The company has since introduced a new tagline, “Live in Levi’s,” increased its ad spending and bought the naming rights to the San Francisco 49ers stadium, the site of the Super Bowl in 2016.It has also made big reductions to its staff, cut its debt and invested in a local facility called the Eureka Innovation Lab. The company credits the lab with “cutting-edge advancements for our company and the industry” in its regulatory filings, including the “four-way stretch fabric” that was part of its women’s jeans relaunch in 2015. Levi’s also hired a chief strategy and artificial intelligence officer this year.Crucially, the company, which still makes most of its revenue through wholesale channels like department stores, has sought to lift sales through its own shops and websites in recent years. Last year, direct sales accounted for 35 percent of its revenue.Levi’s has also been expanding in tops — which accounted for 20 percent of sales last year — and women’s apparel, which increased to 29 percent of its sales last year. The company has been generating buzz around its women’s denim, including its so-called Wedgie jean.While Levi’s has benefited from the work Mr. Bergh has done, it has also been helped by “a tide back to denim,” Ms. Driscoll said. Other companies have seen those results as well, particularly companies selling lower-cost denim in the post-recession era. (One forecast said the average price of a pair of jeans would fall to around $32 last year.)“Since the economic collapse in 2008 to 2010, that whole period, using expensive apparel to communicate who you are just isn’t as cool as it was,” Ms. Driscoll said.One of the biggest challenges that Mr. Bergh and Levi’s have faced in recent years has been the boom in the all-mighty yoga pant. Coresight Research said in a recent report that United States imports of women’s elastic knit pants surpassed imports of women’s blue denim pants in 2017. Levi’s has mitigated some of that issue with the stretch it added to its jeans. “It drives me crazy that women wear yoga pants to nice restaurants — denim would look so much better,” Mr. Bergh wrote in an essay for Harvard Business Review last year. “But they’re choosing athleisure because it’s more comfortable. I told our designers that we had to fix this problem.”The company sought to convey its trendiness in its regulatory filings this month. It described how Beyoncé wore Levi’s cutoff shorts while performing at Coachella in April 2018 as well as its collaborations with Justin Timberlake and the Air Jordan brand from Nike.This week’s offering gives the company and its owners some new flexibility, said Mike Zuccaro, a Moody’s analyst. Mr. Zuccaro said he was impressed with how the company has been able to withstand difficult trends within the retail industry and focus on areas where it can grow.He added, “The challenges are still there in U.S. retail and everywhere, really, but it says a lot about what Levi’s has been able to do in that environment.” Stephen Grocer contributed reporting. SINGAPORE — Has the failure of Eleven James, the American pioneer in renting luxury timepieces that suddenly closed last summer, dampened investors’ or users’ enthusiasm for luxury timepiece rentals?On the contrary.The sharing economy so beloved of millennials — who seem to prefer renting everything from bridal gowns to transportation — is continuing to spread among watch fans in France, the United States, Singapore and beyond. And, operating almost entirely through the internet, there is little sign of it abating.For example, Sidne Yeo, a 28-year-old consultant based in Singapore who advises Australian companies that want to penetrate Chinese e-commerce, already had a collection of five watches. But in 2018 he decided to join Acquired Time, an online club based in the city-state that had been introduced in March the previous year.Mr. Yeo said he wanted to try watches that he probably would buy at some point — like the so-called “Rolex Hulk,” a Rolex Submariner with a green bezel.“I thought it was a great idea,” he said. “I decided to give it a shot.”Roy Tong, Acquired Time’s co-founder, had used his company’s money to amass a collection of about 40 watches now grown to 80, mostly for men, with what he estimated as a total retail value of about 1 million Singaporean dollars ($740,465). He said he wanted to create an online business that would allow members to “test drive” watches before purchase.“At the beginning, I thought that my clients would be fresh graduates in their 20s and 30s who were purchasing their first watch,” Mr. Tong said, “but we soon discovered that the bulk of our clients is made of senior professionals who already have a watch, and often more than one.”For these customers, he said, Acquired Time is like an “extension of their watch collection.”The club requires a six-month membership and has three fee levels that correspond with the type of watch that may be rented: Subscribers who pay 175 Singapore dollars a month have access to watches like a classic IWC Pilot Mark XVIII Heritage (which has a retail price in the United States of $4,350). The 275-dollar subscription includes watches like a Rolex Submariner (which retails for approximately $7,500), and the 375-dollar subscription, watches like an Audemars Piguet Safari (approximately $26,000).Prospective new members generally reach Mr. Tong through the company website or a WhatsApp message; they are vetted, which can take about three days, and, if successful, a company concierge then delivers the member’s watch to his or her home. About 100 people already are Acquired Time members, and Mr. Tong is planning to expand the business into Hong Kong this month.And in recent months two similar businesses have begun operating in Singapore: TenTwo Club, established by Dan Kruimel, Ronald Chew and Dan Mills, and Specter One, founded by Sendi Heng.At the startEleven James began as a watch rental business, founded in 2013 in New York by Randy Brandoff. He had been the chief marketing officer of NetJets, the Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary that sold part ownership or shares of private business jets; he took the role of chief executive in his new online business.But the model had changed to memberships by the time the club was reintroduced in 2017, and Olivier Reza, artistic director of the Paris-based jewelry house that bears his family name, had become chief executive. He had been an early investor in Eleven James.“We are focusing on what really matters, which is the experience of beautiful things,” Mr. Reza said in an interview with The New York Times. He talked about the company’s pending expansion into jewelry and contemporary art, saying that renting luxury goods was the wave of the future.Then, last August, the watch blog Hodinkee reported that the company had failed to find investment, lost its credit line and was shutting down. Several employees, the story said, refused to comment. The failure, however, seems to have been the business — not the idea.Sharing businesses from Rent the Runway to Zipcar have been growing. For example, the “End of Ownership” chapter in “The State of Fashion 2019” report by the Business of Fashion and McKinsey & Company outlined, “the shift to new ownership models is driven by growing consumer desire for variety, sustainability and affordability and sources suggest that the resale market, for instance, could be bigger than fast fashion within 10 years.”A survey of more than 275 fashion industry executives, used to help develop the report contents, found that 41 percent of the respondents felt the rental market would be more relevant to consumers this year than it was in 2018.And Alexander Thiel, a partner at McKinsey in Zurich, said that millennials, in particular, want their purchases to suit their lifestyles and “luxury is becoming more experience focused,” suggesting that the idea of being able to wear numerous luxury watches for a fraction of their cost is appealing.The business modelYet even as online watch clubs are expanding, they aren’t all using the same business model.Mr. Tong, for example, bought his club’s stock of watches from private collectors in Asia. He knows that some other clubs use watches offered on consignment by their owners — a method that Eleven James used that is also employed by Singaporean Specter One — but he said he doubts Asian collectors would be interested in risking their timepieces to “earn a few hundred dollars a month.”Yet consignments have been the cornerstone of Luxothèque, a rental company founded four months ago in Paris by Thomas Blavet, a former manager at Cartier and Chaumet, and which already has served about 25 customers. Its online site displays more than 100 watches, men’s and women’s models by Rolex, Cartier, Jaeger-LeCoultre and even a French diving watch specialist, Ralf Tech.“The stock comes from professional and private owners who entrust us with their pieces, and we pay them after each renting, like Airbnb in a way,” Mr. Blavet said, adding that he plans to add an owners’ section to the website so they can monitor rentals and income independently.Consignments are also being considered as a way to expand Watch It, an online club based in Paris that Vincent Robert and Pierric Soustre founded in 2016.Mr. Robert had bought himself a Rolex for his 25th birthday and said he realized the next day that he was already bored with it. He wanted a classic leather watch for a dinner reception and a Hublot to wear to a sporting event.A quick search for “rent a watch” gave him zero results, so he called Mr. Soustre and said, as he recalled, “I need to talk to you about a new business idea.” Two days later their company was born.Mr. Robert said most of the club’s current stock of about 20 watches were acquired through loans from a bank and one of Mr. Soustre’s relatives. But they want to expand into consignments, although, Mr. Robert added, the security of such watches would be a concern.Vyrent, however, found that the scores of watches sitting idle in wholesalers’ stockrooms and retailers’ drawers were the way to supplement its offerings. The New York-based online club has made arrangements with scores of such businesses so that, when any of its approximately 1,000 members selects one of their watches, the retailer or wholesaler is paid a portion of the person’s membership fee. “This way we can guarantee our customers access to thousands of watches,” said Michael Oshinaya, the company’s executive director of corporate strategy. And, this stream has the advantage of not burdening the balance sheet.Vyrent offers three-, six- and 12-month subscriptions, with rates matching watch categories. Members, then, can exchange watches as many times as they wish, wearing a stainless steel Audemars Piguet Royal Oak one week and a full diamond yellow gold presidential Rolex Day-Date II the next. There also is a “rent to buy” service that offers the opportunity to rent a watch before committing to a purchase.Even watch companies are getting into rentals. As the Swiss maker DuBois et Fils — which offers 20 of its models to shareholders and even a rebate for posting travel photos — asks on its site: “Why buy when you can rent?”Rent the Runway, the company known for lending designer dresses to women for special occasions, has received a new round of financing that increased its valuation to the unicorn level of $1 billion.The valuation announced on Thursday is a milestone for Rent the Runway, which was founded a decade ago and has been working for years to expand its business beyond formal dress rentals. It introduced a subscription service for everyday clothing and accessories several years ago that has developed a particularly enthusiastic customer base among professional women. Recently, it announced a partnership with West Elm that will allow subscribers to rent “bundles” of pillows, throws and quilts for their living rooms and bedrooms.“You’ll continue to see that this new living closet that we’ve created is going to apply not only to how you get dressed, but it’ll apply to all of the products that you use,” Jennifer Hyman, 38, the company chief executive and a co-founder, said in a phone interview. “Our goal is really to create the Amazon Prime of rental.”The company said it had brought in $125 million in the latest fund-raising round, which was led by Franklin Templeton Investments and Bain Capital Ventures. That brings the total equity the New York-based company has raised to $337 million, and adds to a $200 million credit facility it secured in August.Those who subscribe to Rent the Runway can borrow up to four items at a time for $159 per month, cycling through designer garments and accessories — including maternity wear — with the option to buy goods at discounted prices. Rent the Runway declined to disclose its subscriber count or its revenue or to say if it was profitable.The company plans to expand into more product categories, establish a second distribution facility in Dallas and open a new 8,000-square-foot store in San Francisco. Ms. Hyman said the additions would enable West Coast customers to have “an equivalent experience” to customers on the East Coast.She also said the company was aiming to improve its subscription service by potentially increasing the number of items customers can rent at one time and expanding a budding network of drop-off locations, including at WeWork spaces. Merchandise is scanned at these drop-off locations, making customers immediately able to rent more items.Rent the Runway, which received its first investment in May 2009, sought to build relationships with investors in this fund-raising round who would support the company if it decided to go public. “We’re readying the company for all options,” Ms. Hyman said.Tech investors have been paying close attention to retail companies that were built online, from secondhand apparel start-ups like The RealReal and Poshmark to Stitch Fix, a mail-order clothing service. While there are plenty of cautionary tales, like the short-lived boom in flash sale sites, Stitch Fix has seen its stock soar since it went public in 2017. The RealReal and Poshmark remain private.Before introducing their namesake labels, Vera Wang was a design director at Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan was head of design at Anne Klein, and Tom Ford, of course, was the creative director at Gucci and YSL. Hone your craft at a major brand, then start your own shop — it’s a familiar fashion narrative, and one that happens with accessories too. And lucky for us that it does. Consider, here, five of the buzziest new shoe lines. While their aesthetics run from frilled pastel stilettos to no-nonsense black flatforms, the labels have one common thread: They were founded by industry vets — and it shows.Seven All Around: Coolness Meets ComfortOrigin Story: As the former head of design at Public School, Heesung Choi, the Seven All Around founder, was well versed in the cool-kid aesthetic long before striking out on her own in 2018.Current Narrative: You probably wouldn’t be able to tell at first glance, but Ms. Choi prizes practicality. The sandals are engineered with just the right walking-all-day pitch (neither too high nor too flat), and the ankle boots feature soft cork padding. It’s coolness without sacrificing comfort.Seven All Around boots made of recycled yarn with a coral design embroidered in metallic yarn, $795, and mesh boots in recycled yarn and vegan leather, $425, at sevenallaround.com. Mercedes Castillo: Mass Appeal Origin Story: Mercedes Castillo was the footwear design director for Donna Karan International before heading to Tory Burch to start its shoe line. In 2017, she introduced her namesake label.Current Narrative: Ms. Castillo’s line is already stocked by retail giants (Net-a-Porter, Bergdorf Goodman, Saks), and it’s easy to see why. The shoes — think pearl-embellished mules, white mesh loafers — make everyday footwear fun.Mercedes Castillo satin slip-ons with pearl detail, $475 at mercedescastillo.com. Dahlia Selva: Unbridled FemininityOrigin Story: Before introducing their line in 2018, Stephanie Roy-Heckl and Danilo Giordano, the Dahlia Selva founders, met at Ralph Lauren, where Ms. Roy-Heckl worked in wholesale and Mr. Giordano was vice president for footwear design.Current Narrative: Pink and red and satin and grosgrain are in heavy rotation, and an exaggerated ruffle serves as the signature detail on many styles.Dahlia Selva lace pumps with hand-finished suede ruffle, $795 at nordstrom.comLabucq: Understated But VersatileOrigin Story: After designing shoes for 10 years at Rag & Bone (including that best-selling Newbury ankle boot beloved by 20-somethings from West Hollywood to the West Village), Lauren Bucquet left the company in 2016, then introduced her Labucq line in the fall of 2018.Current Narrative: Labucq stresses the importance of its direct-to-consumer model, allowing the label to sell its footwear at more accessible prices (mules for $195, ankle boots for $350). Labucq patent leather sandals with block heels, $325 at labucq.com.Fabrizio Viti: In the DetailsOrigin Story: Fabrizio Viti, a former head shoe designer at Gucci and Prada, introduced his own label in 2016. In 2019, Mr. Viti designs his namesake label and serves as the head shoe designer for Louis Vuitton. Current Narrative: An eye-catching range of styles, as diverse as daisy-covered sandals and knee-high drawstring boots in electric orange.Fabrizio Viti kitten pumps, $849, and denim boots, $645, at fabrizioviti.com. Just days after saying that it would close most of its stores, Tesla is making an abrupt U-turn.In a message posted on its blog just before midnight Sunday, the electric-car maker said it had decided to retain many of the locations it had shut down or was planning to close. And it said it would raise most of its vehicle prices about 3 percent worldwide, just weeks after cutting prices.“Over the past two weeks we have been closely evaluating every single Tesla retail location, and we have decided to keep significantly more stores open than previously announced as we continue to evaluate them over the course of several months,” the company said in the blog post. The price increases, it said, are necessary to make up for the loss of savings that was anticipated from the store closings.The flip-flops are the latest sign of turmoil surrounding the company and its chief executive, Elon Musk.“This reversal is bizarre and indicates a lack of actual planning in the earlier announcement,” said Mike Ramsey, a Gartner analyst. “Their retail stores still serve a real need.”Until last month, Tesla had been rushing to expand its network of showrooms and mall galleries, which display its cars but take no customer orders.On Feb. 28, Mr. Musk told reporters in a conference call that Tesla would start offering a long-awaited version of its Model 3 sedan with a starting price of $35,000. Previously, the least expensive Model 3 cost $43,000 before tax incentives.Mr. Musk said closing its stores would allow Tesla to cut costs enough to make the Model 3 profitable at the lower price. But he would not elaborate on those calculations, and he said Tesla would lose money in the first quarter, contrary to previous forecasts.As part of the cost cutting, he said, Tesla would henceforth take orders only online. Tesla affirmed the online approach in its announcement Sunday night, saying its stores would serve as a way to introduce potential buyers to Tesla vehicles, provide a test drive on request — another reversal from its earlier announcement — and show how to make a purchase.“Stores will also carry a small number of cars in inventory for customers who wish to drive away with a Tesla immediately,” it added.In a recent email to employees, Mr. Musk said 78 percent of Model 3 orders were already placed online. Buyers can get full refunds if they return cars within seven days and have driven them less than 1,000 miles.Tesla has been in retreat in recent months, scrambling to shore up flagging investor confidence. Along with layoffs of 7 percent of its work force in January, the news of store closings appeared to underline the challenges for a newcomer breaking into an old-line manufacturing industry. The company has struggled to make a few thousand cars in a week — a feat that established automakers can do in a day.Asked to elaborate on the company’s latest moves, a Tesla spokesman declined to comment.The weeks of tension have taken a toll on Tesla shares. On Monday they rose 2.4 percent, closing at $290.92, but they are down 9 percent since Mr. Musk said the company would be unprofitable in the first quarter.The twists on the marketing front have coincided with renewed upheaval surrounding Mr. Musk himself.Less than a month ago, Tesla’s general counsel quit a day after Mr. Musk said on Twitter that the company expected to sell 500,000 cars this year, an increase of 100,000 from the estimate it made public in January.The Securities and Exchange Commission contended that the tweet violated an agreement it had reached with Tesla in September to settle a securities-fraud case, and it asked a federal court to hold Mr. Musk in contempt. Under the settlement, the company was to “put in place additional controls and procedures” to oversee Mr. Musk’s communications.In a response filed with the court on Monday, Mr. Musk’s lawyers argued that there were no grounds for a contempt citation. They said that the Tesla chief “correctly used his discretion” to determine that nothing in his Twitter post was material and that “under no fair reading of the materiality standard” did the post alter the information available to investors.The response also said that a contempt citation “would raise serious First Amendment issues” and that the S.E.C.’s request represented “unprecedented overreach.”Even with its financial and regulatory challenges, the company is moving ahead on new initiatives.On Thursday, Mr. Musk is scheduled to unveil the Model Y, a sport utility vehicle that Tesla is counting on to fuel further growth. David Whiston, a Morningstar analyst, said the big question for Tesla’s business prospects was when the Model Y would be available for sale. “Thursday is just for show,” he said.And in a move meant to address its logistical challenges in delivering cars to customers, Tesla said in a filing with the S.E.C. on Monday that it had purchased trucks and car-hauling trailers from a California company in exchange for stock worth $13.8 million. In November, Mr. Musk said on Twitter that Tesla had bought “some trucking companies,” but provided no details.Mr. Musk has portrayed the Model 3 as a mass-market offering crucial to Tesla’s future. In the last three months of 2018, Tesla opened 27 sales and service locations to keep up with rising demand. Over all, the company had more than 100 stores and showrooms in the United States, and others overseas.In its announcement Sunday night, Tesla said it had already closed 10 percent of its locations. Those stores did not have “natural foot traffic,” it said, though some will reopen with a smaller staff. The company said an additional 20 percent were under review for potential closing in the coming months.The automaker also said the $35,000 version of the Model 3 would not be affected by the price increases. They will apply to the higher-end Model X and Model S — cars on which Tesla only recently had been dropping prices — as well as for more expensive versions of the Model 3.The company said customers would have a week to place orders at current prices.As tattooed rockers, tech bros and Instagram influencers pile into the tweedy world of watch collecting, prices for sought-after classics from brands like Rolex, Omega and Patek Philippe are shooting up. In some cases, they have doubled in just a couple of years.These next-generation collectors see old timepieces not just as a subtly stylish way to dress up a T-shirt and jeans, but also as a hot new asset in their investment portfolios. In a market where stocks, bonds and real estate seem at an unsteady peak, do vintage watches present a Bitcoin-in-2017-like growth opportunity? Or are they in a Bitcoin-in-2017-like bubble? Time — elegantly monitored — will tell. Even though his investment in watches has doubled in value in just 18 months, Peter Goodwin, a private investor in Charlottesville, Va., who also collects watches, said he is concerned about frothiness in the vintage market.“It’s much like momentum investing in stocks,” he said. “People see the rise in Facebook shares, they see Mark Zuckerberg, and they want to ride it up. It is the same with the trendy watches we read about in the auctions — the Paul Newman Rolex, the Omega Speedmasters, some Submariners. You see them rising and you want to jump on.”“The question,” Mr. Goodwin said, “is when does it stop?”That’s a risk that newcomer watch geeks like Shahien Hendizadeh, a recent business school graduate in Los Angeles, are willing to take.“Buying a good vintage Rolex is just like purchasing stock in a company like Nestlé or Google,” Mr. Hendizadeh, 25, said. “It is the quintessential blue chip.”After taking a face-plant on a long-shot $2,000 investment in American Apparel stock, just months before the company declared bankruptcy, he bought a 1982 Rolex Submariner for $13,000. It has appreciated perhaps $10,000 in two years, he said.And in the event of an economic downturn, fine watches may turn out to represent a safe-haven asset, like metals or gems, for investors looking to diversify their portfolios. Or they may just be another of-the-moment asset that 1 percenters, flush with cash, have inflated to unsustainable proportions. ⊕Watch collectors hide in plain sight. John Mayer’s watch collection is nearly as famous as his guitar work. His bank vault contains a vast array of collectibles, including sapphire-encrusted gold Rolexes and Luftwaffe watches from World War II, that he has said is valued in the “tens of millions.”Silicon Valley heavyweights like Kevin Rose, the Digg founder, and Matt Jacobson, Facebook’s employee No. 8, have museum-worthy Rolexes and Patek Philippes, helping to establish a head-turning timepiece as a tech-world style flourish to rival the hoodie.Ellen DeGeneres wore a holy-grail Paul Newman-model Rolex Daytona from the 1960s, now worth perhaps $250,000, while bantering with Jerry Seinfeld in an episode of “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” last year. (Adam Levine and Ed Sheeran have been spotted wearing Paul Newmans as well. One also made a cameo on the wrist of Pierre Png’s character in “Crazy Rich Asians.”)In professional sports, high-end timepieces have long seemed as indispensable as a shoe contract for stars with seven- and eight-figure incomes. Top athletes including Rafael Nadal, Dwyane Wade and LeBron James have served as celebrity ambassadors for brands like Richard Mille, Hublot and Audemars Piguet. Star players who have been traded have been known to trade a Rolex to a player on their new team to secure their old jersey number. And in recent years, several have morphed into certifiable watch snobs. Howie Kendrick of the Washington Nationals, for example, counts understated heirlooms, like a 1959 LeCoultre Deep Sea Alarm and a 1960s Breitling Superocean, as key elements of his off-field uniform.If you’re still 1 percent-ish but would prefer to dabble, there’s good news. The Watch Fund, run by Dominic Khoo, a shareholder and watch specialist with the auction company Antiquorum, offers people a chance to invest in rare and limited-edition watches at prices that can be 50 percent or more below retail. Those who have bought in have seen at least double-digit returns since the fund’s inception six years ago, Mr. Khoo said.Star power and funds like Mr. Khoo’s add credence to the idea that fine watches are a soybean or a copper, another investable commodity. But does that make them a good investment?⊛What even makes a watch valuable? Consider the bezel insert from a 1957 Rolex Submariner. A bezel insert is the featherweight aluminum disk with numbers on it that surrounds the dial of a diver’s watch.On Submariners made in the third quarter of 1957, the bezel insert was made with an unusual red triangle at 12 o’clock and slightly different typography on the numerals. Because it is rare, that insert is so sought after by collectors that it can fetch more than $30,000 these days, said Eric Wind, a dealer of fine vintage watches in Florida, up from maybe $10,000 just a few years ago.None of this necessarily makes sense. It’s not like a vintage watch is better than a new one. In fact, it’s worse in almost every way.A new Rolex Submariner, for example, is a modern update of a decades-old classic that seems to be every budding watch geek’s first serious timepiece. The new Sub is a marvel of mechanical engineering, with a high-tech ceramic bezel that is virtually guaranteed not to fade, a solid-steel bracelet as rugged as a tank tread, and a crystal made of sapphire that is all but scratch-proof. It’s a watch that feels indestructible enough for a pleasure dive in the Mariana Trench.No one would ever say that about its predecessor, those midcentury Submariners made famous by Sean Connery’s James Bond, which are shooting up in value despite the fact that they feature an acrylic (that is, plastic) crystal prone to scratches and cracks, a hollow-steel bracelet that eventually might stretch like an accordion, and a painted dial that could fade from the original black to an espresso brown (known to collectors as a “tropical” dial).Which is, naturally, why old watches are considered cool: They have patina, provenance, soul. And for a generation of men (and yes, vintage watches seem to be an obsession largely for men, with apologies to Ellen) who value the analog-chic of antique mechanical watches, just like vinyl records and selvage jeans, that is key.“Vintage watches should show off their age,” said Nelson Murray, a 31-year-old photographer and budding collector in San Francisco. Vintage sport watches, like his Rolex GMT-Master, a classic pilot’s watch from 1980, “evoke a sense of adventure and a kind of dare to add more dings and scratches to them as evidence of a life lived.”⊚Prices for some Rolex GMT-Master models — in the proper condition, with original parts — have spiked to perhaps $16,000, up from $8,000 just two or three years ago, said Paul Altieri of Bob’s Watches, a prominent retailer in Newport Beach, Calif. (It routinely shows off sumptuous wrist shots of old classics for its Instagram followers.)A few years ago, Matt Hranek, a watch-loving photographer who recently founded a men’s style magazine called Wm Brown, flipped a 1960s Omega Speedmaster (the same model worn by the astronaut Ed White on the first American spacewalk) for five times what he paid for it, he said. That score helped him persuade his wife that a portfolio of vintage watches could serve as an alternate 401(k) for the family.“I convinced her — I think — that it was much more practical to invest regularly in watches that I know about rather than the stock market that I know absolutely nothing about,” Mr. Hranek, 51, said.Benjamin Clymer, the founder of the watch site Hodinkee, which has evolved from a one-man watch blog to a market-moving editorial and e-commerce site selling new and vintage watches, has been practicing a form of horological arbitrage with his collection for years.In 2012, for example, he bought a Patek Philippe Nautilus, a triumph of 1970s mod design that conjures images of Concorde flights and fondue parties, for $18,000. That watch is worth at least $75,000 today, Mr. Clymer, 36, said. That’s not his only home run as a watch investor.“I have a distinct memory of a friend who is now one of the great vintage dealers in the world calling me crazy for spending $30,000 for an early 1950s Omega Speedmaster,” he said. “The same watch today would be well north of $100,000.”⊝With wrist shots flourishing on Instagram and watch sites like Hodinkee, Worn & Wound and Monochrome spreading arcane watch knowledge to the masses, collector demand is spreading beyond behemoth brands like Rolex and Omega to lesser-known makers like Universal Genève. One particularly coveted version of that venerable Swiss maker’s Compax chronograph famously graced the wrist of Nina Rindt, the fashionable wife of the 1970s Formula One racer Jochen Rindt. It began trading as high as $45,000 recently, up from maybe $2,800 in 2011, although the market has cooled of late, Mr. Wind said; the same model might trade for $20,000 to $30,000, he added. But no watch has exploded in value like the Paul Newman Daytona. It is an auto racer’s chronograph that once was considered something of an afterthought in the watch world. Joanne Woodward accidentally made it iconic when she bought one for Mr. Newman, her gear-head husband, in the late 1960s for about $250.Whether she noticed it or not, the specific model she selected for Mr. Newman, who could often be found circling the track when he was not making movies, was rare, featuring distinctive Art Deco-inflected numerals on its three sub-dials denoting seconds, minutes and hours. This only appeared on perhaps one in 20 Daytonas from the late 1960s and early 1970s.Over the years, Mr. Newman’s stature as a style icon grew, and so did the mythology — and value — of the Rolex he flashed on magazine covers. In a 2014 post, Hodinkee scoured old auction catalogs featuring Paul Newman sales and found estimates as low as $9,257 in 1992, and as low (yes) as $66,000 in 2008.Those were the days. After Paul Newman’s own Paul Newman attracted worldwide headlines by selling at auction for $17.8 million after a mere 12 minutes of bidding in 2017, every Paul Newman suddenly seems to be trading like a Picasso. A coveted version known as an Oyster Mk 1 “panda” went for more than $750,000 at a Phillips auction in Geneva this past spring, a figure that shocked Mr. Clymer, who once owned that very watch. “The Oysters are something really special, and go well beyond ticking the box for a rich guy to prove he’s cool,” Mr. Clymer said. “I bought this watch in the twos, sold it in the threes, and I thought I was the smartest man in the room. How could a steel Daytona break $400,000?”⊜Not every old watch has value. Anyone who scoops up a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s at a flea market is likely to end up with a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s. Vintage watch collecting can prove a minefield for newbie collectors. Even with blue-chip models, seemingly imperceptible differences can add or detract thousands of dollars in value. A Rolex Submariner from the 1960s with an original bezel insert featuring a so-called long 5 is worth thousands more than one with a replacement insert with a shorter, more contemporary 5. Buyers need to figure out if a watch has been polished over the years — actually considered a bad thing, since polishing can wear down the crisp edges of its case, Mr. Wind said. And they need to watch out for unscrupulous dealers peddling so-called Frankenwatches, which contain non-original parts that can torpedo the value. Besides, watch collecting can be similar to art collecting in that dealers tend to reserve the most coveted pieces for insiders and heavyweight collectors, rarely making them available to the general public. And then there are the fickle market tastes that any sort of collector must try to anticipate. Right now, the arrow is pointing up on best-of-breed sport watches with steel bracelets, like the Nautilus, the Submariner and GMT, the early Speedmasters, the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak and certain vintage Tudors and Heuers, Mr. Clymer said. There’s no telling how the demand for five- and six-figure timepieces will hold up should, say, a credit implosion in China, or a splintering of the eurozone, produce a sequel to the 2008 financial crisis, or should Democratic Socialists sweep to power in Washington on promises of a 70 percent tax rate on the target demographic for museum-worthy watches. Already, some sure things, like certain Daytonas, are looking like slightly less than a sure thing. “The market for Daytona just got a little silly for awhile,” Mr. Clymer said. “We saw references worth $20,000, $25,000 in 2011 to 2015 all of a sudden worth $50,000, then all of a sudden worth $80,000. And now those same references are worth $65,000. That’s still significantly higher than they were, but they’ve come down from the stratosphere.”During the bear market of 2008 to 2009, too, prices for some high-flying vintage models, including Paul Newmans, dipped by 30 to 40 percent, said Matthew Bain, a dealer of fine watches in Miami Beach. But, like stocks, they bounced back to new highs. The rebound may seem intoxicating. But people who think of their watch collection as an alternative to an E-Trade account may be in for a rude surprise when they discover that watches often come with sizable dealer fees, not to mention substantial outlays for insurance, secure storage and other hidden costs, Mr. Khoo said. “Investors are not collectors, and collectors are not investors,” Mr. Khoo said. His Watch Fund has a database of “more than 9,000 watch collectors worldwide,” he said, and “I have never met someone who bought hundreds of watches that he liked, and sold 100 percent of them for a net absolute gain.”In other words, newcomers to the watch world may want to heed the warning attached to brokerage advertisements on television: Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Or, they may just want to buy whatever looks cool and leave it at that. Celine’s new Madison Avenue flagship is where Hedi Slimane’s debut collection for the house is now for sale. In October, critics incinerated these clothes, so brokenhearted were fans of Phoebe Philo’s vision for Celine when they saw the 96 looks that seemed to say only: “Yeah, I party.” Then, on March 1, Mr. Slimane showed his second collection: a litany of archive-sourced culottes, horse-laden hardware and trim jeans. It was old-old Celine, a collection from the source. The response was positive. Was this shift proof of the power of discourse, or merely a company hitting a target somewhere between Chloé and Hermès? But in store, before the second collection was shown, all I had was the first impression, the first non-Philo collection hanging from large rails above the lava stone floor. Grouped together on the center rail were basics: a peacoat, blazers and shirting, hung apart from the mini metallic dresses they were styled with on the runway. You can see them from the sidewalk, along with the wood seats and even the register. In fact, the photographs accompanying this column were taken through the store’s large windows because Celine declined requests to shoot in the store. I call this high-visibility, low-transparency move “shoptics.” My friend, a Philo-phile and “old Celine” regular, was drawn to a calf-length black cashmere coat ($4,850) with a leather belt. The salesman opened a mirrored door in the dressing area so she could observe the back. His invitation? “Let’s have a party.”I was told that all of the clothes are unisex (I was only the second person to try on a $26,400 metal shirtdress made of fine knitted chain; a male salesperson braved it first), but also that the men’s wear is selling well. “Men have been repeat customers already,” a salesman told me.They sure have. To dedicated Slimane customers, this “new” Celine hardly needs introduction. They’ve bought it all before: pants so tight it takes a jump to unwedge an Adderall from the pocket; a densely sequined blazer that reflects specks of phone light in a dark club; and a leather jacket to throw on whenever it’s time to suck nicotine between now and dawn. Perhaps Mr. Slimane’s magic is that he soothes his spend-ready audience: Wherever he goes, he promises things won’t change too much. Rock ’n’ roll. Forever.In the dressing area, the “party” was on. The salesman pointed to the beautiful seams that bound the back of my friend’s coat, details that, I appreciated, wouldn’t be visible at night. “The lines that make the drape echo the lines of the Brutalist modernity of the store,” he said. The coat’s construction was a celebration, but instead my friend left the store with one of the last bags in stock designed by Ms. Philo, a blue-green leather tote. “The reason that I would choose to go to Celine is because of her depth,” she told me. “It’s not the lines or craftsmanship. It’s feeling understood.”As I clicked through photos of Mr. Slimane’s first Celine collection, I felt like raw pork in a bag of dry bread crumbs: contextless, shaken and coated in stale. Celine was wiped clean! Ms. Philo’s ode to aspirational womanhood was gagged with a puff sleeve and tossed into a leather canyon!Now, I feel nothing. The shock of new Celine was a reminder that brands are not culture. They’re companies. The design spoke to you; the house charged you. The culture has no set boundary, while brands are defined by their territories.With this realization, the party really started. Perhaps it was all the beautiful marble. I made party conversation, asking about a red rock in the back of the store that was part of an art installation. I was told to make sure I didn’t miss the “semi-distressed cube” that is also art in the store, so I went and looked at that cube. It was there that I ran into someone I knew but did not expect to see, just like at a real party: a salesman from Balenciaga uptown who knows I am an author of this column. The most “party” moment: When he walked away, I hoped he wasn’t going to talk about me. I think it’s really smart that the new Celine store sells single earrings. LVMH, the luxury group that owns the label, will make a lot of money. The earring I liked was $1,800. I don’t have that money. I never even shopped at “old Celine.” The bag I eBay-ed when Ms. Philo took over in 2010 was by Michael Kors, who designed the label from 1997 to 2003, but people assumed it was Ms. Philo’s design. I have no idea what, if anything, this means.When I asked to look at the earring, the salesman put on black gloves and passed it over the lighted glass case. The bags were handled with black gloves, too. As shoppers, we were allowed to touch these things with our hands. We also touched a black-and-white-checkered pony-hair coat ($17,900), which a salesperson described as “substantial.” It fit my girlfriend, who guessed the price exactly. When I asked how, she said she imagined what she would theoretically pay for it and doubled it. Then doubled that.I tried on a leather jacket with a “V” of rhinestones down the front, a set of migrating birds sparkling in the sky ($7,600). In the mirror, I felt that if I were a party animal, this is what I’d be.A week later, I woke up to the silence of exciting news on the internet. I opened my phone and saw Hedi Slimane’s new old-old collection for Celine, right in the middle of Celine’s brand territory. See it in stores this summer.Celine650 Madison Avenue, 212-535-3703; celine.com.PARIS — Few luxury brand chief executives are likely to appear as cheerful as Cyrille Vigneron.While many companies continue to grapple with economic jitters in key markets and volatile currency exchange, growth in the fine jewelry sector appears to be largely sheltered from the storm. And Cartier, the high jewelry house where Mr. Vigneron took the helm in 2016, is the jewel in the crown of its parent group, Richemont, which also owns labels like Dunhill, Jaeger-LeCoultre and Van Cleef & Arpels.Richemont has undergone a period of recent and rapid change, from brand introductions, acquisitions and a management shake-up, to a revamped online strategy amid a flattened watch market (timepieces account for 37 percent of group sales).Throughout, however, Cartier has consistently remained its star performer, driving double digit growth for Richemont fine jewelry in the first half of 2019 and making its premium pricing and margin models the envy of rivals in the sector.According to an annual ranking of the world’s top 100 brands, compiled by the research company Kantar and its brand strategy business Millward Brown, Cartier was valued at $7.04 billion last year. (Richemont does not directly break down brand-by-brand performance results within its earning reports).“A revitalized Cartier remains the main reason to hold Richemont stock,” Rogerio Fujimori, luxury analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a recent note to investors. “Thanks to Cartier’s strong comeback under the leadership of Cyrille Vigneron, including in watches, its margins are higher than those at jewelry maisons owned by LVMH or Kering.”For Mr. Vigneron, the appointment as chief executive of the house was something of a homecoming. He initially joined Cartier in 1988, serving in a variety of positions there and within the Richemont stable for 25 years before being hired as president of LVMH Japan in 2013. After being lured back to take the top job at Cartier, he took on a series of bold decisions to move the maison into the 21st century.“Put simply, I had three main areas of focus,” Mr. Vigneron said over a pot of tea in Paris earlier this month. “One, to re-establish Cartier’s brand territory in a fast-moving and global market. Two, to reconsider all product lines and make sure they fell firmly within the vision of those new parameters. And three, to revitalize our retail and communication strategies, which had become a bit conventional and dusty.“Cartier has long been a leader because of the timelessness of our designs and craftsmanship,” he added. “However the challenge is also to feel timely, and to express that to clients of both new generations and geographies.”In addition to a wide scale buyback of timepieces in 2017 (to avoid them being sold at knockdown prices) and the revitalization of signature styles from Love and Juste un Clou to Tutti Frutti or Coloratura high jewelry masterpieces, there have been several new lines, the latest of which is scheduled to debut next month. Mr. Vigneron stayed tight-lipped on specifics, although he did mention the collection would include rings and bracelets.“I don’t think there has been a striking new ring launch in the jewelry market for a decade. I think this one can be, and I feel confident that we will sell it for years to come alongside our best-known collections that have never lost their appeal,” he said. “A worrying jewelry trend in recent years has been this rush to produce novelty or flash-in-the pan items. But distinctiveness is more important than newness in this business. That is what will stand the test of time.”Revaluation and rigorous testing of pricing strategies was another key priority. According to Mr. Vigneron, a common thread of contemporary luxury is that customers are savvier than ever before about the value of the jewelry they buy.“Luxury used to be a field of secrecy, but the world is more transparent in terms of what is worth what today. As a fine jeweler, you also have to be realistic about the value judgments your clients are then in a position to make,” he said, noting that values and spending patterns differ across different markets.For example, millennials in the West — where the next generation is less affluent than its parents — shy away from big-ticket items, opting for more accessibly priced pieces that better fit into their less ostentatious, more casual lives.In the upwardly mobile East, the opposite is happening.“We don’t cater to need, we cater to desire,” Mr. Vigneron said. “So more and more, pricing in luxury is an art in itself and you need to ensure the right product is available for customers at every entry point to the Cartier brand. People of all backgrounds are more than willing to buy into a dream, but it has to be at the right price.”In an evermore competitive market, however, this also means meeting customers in new ways. For Cartier, that meant investing heavily in renovating key flagship locations, including New Bond Street in London, which reopened in December, and ensuring these stores could also be used for meetings and events. The house also has hosted several high-profile museum-style exhibitions of key pieces from its archives, and reconsidered its product introductions. To celebrate the unveiling of the new Santos de Cartier watch in San Francisco last year, for example, Cartier held three days of talks with modern-day creative figures, campaigners and entrepreneurs.“As digital gets evermore important so, too, has sharing, learning and finding a community in the physical world, too. If a luxury brand can move beyond product and also facilitate those relationships as they then develop both on and offline, then it is a very powerful thing,” Mr. Vigneron said.A greater focus on such encounters, and on data to understand market changes better and to identify potential customers and how to reach them, has become paramount, he said. So has adapting to client needs and desires as they are shaped by shifting societal trends.“Traditionally, luxury has always been a very centralized business, both physically and philosophically,” Mr. Vigneron said. “The guardian of the temple will remain an artistic director, but today you also need to democratize and spread and test yourself across new markets — far beyond just your stores — in order to really resonate wherever you are.“Inclusivity is critical to most many luxury shoppers who are shaping today’s industry.”For Cartier, beyond building its local teams worldwide, this has meant experimenting by, for example, adapting its video and social media campaigns for different cultures (like deciding its Sofia Coppola-directed video was too provocative and creating a different video for Middle Eastern markets) or male celebrities (like Lu Han in China) to model high jewelry designs directed at women. A retail innovation lab to test new technologies has been opened in Brooklyn, with sites in Tokyo and Shanghai planned for later this year.Such heavy investments do not come without their risks. Fears around a luxury slowdown has rattled stock markets in recent months, fueled further lately by the knock-on effect of months of “Yellow Vest” protests against perceived social and economic inequities in France, which have roiled Paris. For his part, Mr. Vigneron remained upbeat, noting an ongoing sales momentum for Cartier in both the Asia-Pacific and North American markets.“Luxury spending is less impacted by political or social uncertainty than you might think, especially in jewelry where purchases tend to hold their value far longer than, say, shoes or handbags. Things only really change dramatically when stock markets or real estate values start to crash,” he said. “What you are currently seeing, thanks to this more turbulent market, is the difference between those brands who are doing very well in this climate and those who are not.”Mr. Vigneron added that this difference was not about large brands versus smaller rivals, though he acknowledged being backed by a large group could make a real difference to the prospects of a business.“There are lots of big and well-known names spending a lot of money still getting it wrong, and a lot of small independent labels getting it right,” he said. “The key now is about maximizing brand recognition while steadily upping your brand territory. You cannot have any confusion about who you are or where you need to be. You must know your narrative inside out.”“Here at Cartier,” he added with a grin. “We know we have become pretty good at storytelling.”Brian Chesky, chief executive of Airbnb, likes to tell the story of his early struggles to fund his home-sharing start-up. Many venture capitalists refused to meet with him, he said in an email. Some walked out in the middle of meetings. That changed after venture firms such as Sequoia Capital, Andreessen Horowitz and Founders Fund decided to gamble on Airbnb’s potential to shake up the vacation rentals business. Three investors at those firms — Alfred Lin of Sequoia, Jeff Jordan at Andreessen Horowitz and Brian Singerman of Founders Fund — are now among the top players in the venture capital industry, according to an annual ranking compiled for The New York Times by CB Insights, which tracks the start-up industry. Airbnb, privately valued at $31 billion, landed more venture investors at the top of the list than any other company.In his email, Mr. Chesky said Mr. Lin, Mr. Jordan and Mr. Singerman “have a founder’s mind-set” and “share our long-term vision.”Airbnb is expected to go public sometime in the next year, following a bumper crop of initial public offerings that began on Friday with the ride-hailing company Lyft. Uber, Pinterest, Slack and others are also expected to list their shares in the next few months. These offerings will likely mint many venture capital winners, generating huge returns for those who wrote the early checks to these companies. Here’s a look at some of the venture investors who may reap the I.P.O. rewards.Alfred Lin Sequoia CapitalWhen Uber goes public, Mr. Lin may feel a sting. That’s because he made a small personal investment in the ride-hailing company when it was very young, but turned down numerous chances to invest on behalf of Sequoia as Uber grew into a behemoth. “We just didn’t dream with the entrepreneurs,” said Mr. Lin, 46, who joined Sequoia in 2010. “Sometimes we just make the wrong call.”He may have other opportunities to celebrate. Mr. Lin and Sequoia invested early in Airbnb; DoorDash, a food delivery start-up valued at $7.1 billion; and Houzz, a home design and remodeling start-up worth $4 billion.Sequoia wrote Airbnb a $585,000 check in 2009 and invested in each of the company’s later funding rounds. Mr. Lin said he was impressed by how the Airbnb founders could “articulate a dream of the world that is very different from what exists today.”Yet sometimes those lofty dreams clashed with reality. As Airbnb grew, Mr. Chesky said, he wanted to hire executives from Apple and Disney, companies he admired for their creativity, design and simple product lines.Mr. Lin, a former executive at Amazon-owned Zappos, said he had gently suggested that Airbnb emulate businesses that looked more like itself: ones with complex operations in many different places and a wide array of inventory, like Airbnb’s millions of home listings. To help make the point, Mr. Lin introduced Mr. Chesky to Jeff Wilke, the head of Amazon’s retail business, in 2012. That meeting persuaded Mr. Chesky to shift his focus. Airbnb ended up poaching top Amazon executives to become its chief financial officer and head of its homes business.“Part of our job is to help with the sparring of ideas,” Mr. Lin said.With the I.P.O. stampede now on, he said, he is cautioning companies not to rush to go public because their peers are doing so. “These things are milestones, to some degree, that you celebrate,” he said. “But soon after you go public, you have to go back to running your business.”What’s next? Mr. Lin said he and his team were looking at everything from robotics and artificial intelligence to payments and short-form video.Jeff JordanAndreessen HorowitzMarc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, the founders of Andreessen Horowitz, have long been fixtures in the top rankings of venture capital investors, thanks to investments in companies like Lyft. Mr. Jordan, their partner, has recently outdone them.Mr. Jordan, 60, got behind companies such as Pinterest, the digital pin board, which recently filed its prospectus for going public. He also bet on Instacart, the grocery delivery company worth $7.6 billion, and Lime, a scooter start-up valued at $2.4 billion. In 2011, Mr. Jordan also led Andreessen Horowitz’s $60 million investment in Airbnb. He has said the company’s “marketplace” model of matching travelers with home providers reminded him of the early days of eBay, where he was an executive for five years. When Airbnb experienced a hiccup in 2011 — a host’s home was trashed by a guest — Mr. Jordan helped the company with a new insurance program, Airbnb Guarantee, which was modeled after one at eBay. Mr. Jordan, who also led OpenTable before joining Andreessen Horowitz in 2011, said part of his investment success was due to the firm’s wide range of services for start-ups, including recruiting, public relations and business development. It was once unusual for venture firms to to provide those services, though they have become more common. Apoorva Mehta, founder and chief executive of Instacart, said Mr. Jordan often provided corporate development advice and introductions to potential retail partners. “Jeff has always felt like an extension of our team,” Mr. Mehta said. Mr. Jordan, who declined to comment on the current wave of I.P.O.s, said he was looking for the next “platform,” which could be voice or augmented reality and virtual reality. Brian SingermanFounders FundFounders Fund does not offer a suite of services to its start-ups. That’s in keeping with the contrarian philosophy of its founder, Peter Thiel.“We’re not operating the company,” Mr. Singerman, a partner at the firm, said of the reason for not providing additional services. He added that he also eschewed the typical venture capital practice of investing in companies based on a specific strategy or thesis. “That is not me,” he said. “I’m actually open to anything. “All of this helps explain why Mr. Singerman, a 42-year-old former Google engineer, has backed companies as diverse as a health insurance start-up, a payments company, a cancer drug maker and a seller of cheap novelty gifts. And, of course, Airbnb.When Founders Fund helped fund Airbnb in 2013, its international growth had begun taking off. “We had never seen an international network effect like they had,” Mr. Singerman said. He said Mr. Chesky also had a strong sense of what his customers wanted and “kind of wills things into existence.” Mr. Singerman, who joined Founders Fund in 2008, said his biggest challenge was finding the right companies and persuading the founders to let him invest. To source deals, he relies on a broad network of contacts, which led him to Stemcentrx, a cancer drug company that was sold to AbbVie in 2016 for $5.8 billion, and RigUp, an online job platform for energy industry workers.There’s one area in which Mr. Singerman is like other venture capitalists: his professed nonchalance toward I.P.O.s. Founders Fund tends to hold stock in its investments “for a very, very long time,” so a company’s public offering “doesn’t impact us,” he said. In 2016, Mr. Singerman invested in a company called Long Term Stock Exchange. Founded by Eric Ries, the author of the start-up bible “The Lean Startup,” the company wants to open a new stock exchange for young companies that are seeking investors who will stick around for the long haul.Mr. Ries said he had gone to Mr. Singerman for funding because he knew his idea was “out on a limb” and would require patience from investors. The Top 20 Venture CapitalistsCB Insights analyzed investors’ deals, including companies that sold or went public and the value of current portfolio companies, to rank the top venture capitalists. The analysis spanned 2010 through March 2019 and is weighted toward more recent performance. The Times presents the top 20 here:1. Neil Shen — Sequoia Capital China2. Lee Fixel — Tiger Global Management3. Bill Gurley — Benchmark4. Alfred Lin — Sequoia Capital5. Jeffrey Jordan — Andreessen Horowitz6. Peter Fenton — Benchmark7. Brian Singerman — Founders Fund8. Mary Meeker — Bond9. Matt Cohler — Benchmark10. Ravi Mhatre — Lightspeed Venture Partners11. Joshua Kopelman — First Round Capital12. Bryan Schreier — Sequoia Capital13. Allen Zhu — GSR Ventures14. Mike Volpi — Index Ventures15. Sameer Gandhi — Accel16. JP Gan — Qiming Venture Partners17. Ann Miura-Ko — Floodgate18. Hans Tung — GGV19. Aydin Senkut — Felicis Ventures20. Ben Horowitz — Andreessen HorowitzCOMBINED LOCKS, Wis. — As he watched the No. 7 paper machine hiss and hum for what he thought was the last time, Rick Strick felt a lump well in his throat.It was Sept. 21, 2017, and the paper mill that had employed Mr. Strick, his father and his grandfather was shutting down after 128 years. Demand for the glossy white paper that the mill produced for brochures was plummeting as advertising continued its flight to the internet.The village of Combined Locks, Wis., founded when the mill opened in 1889, braced for the loss of its largest employer and feared that the community would be left with a hulking industrial wasteland, just like the other failed paper mills dotting the state. And for the first time since high school, Mr. Strick, who was then 58, started looking for a new job.Then something unexpected happened: Amazon and China, two forces that are often blamed for destroying American employment in retail and manufacturing, helped Mr. Strick get his job back.“No one is shocked when a paper mill closes anymore,” said Kyle Putzstuck, the president of Midwest Paper Group, which bought the Combined Locks mill soon after it was shuttered. “The shocking thing is when one reopens.”The reason for the revival has to do with the millions of packages that Amazon and other online retailers ship around the world — specifically, the humble cardboard used to construct them. Over the past five years, e-commerce has fueled demand for billions more square feet of cardboard.An industry that has struggled mightily during the digital age has a rare opportunity for growth. Since reopening, the mill in Combined Locks has switched most production from white paper to brown, installed equipment that can crush used cardboard to make new paper, and hired back about half of the 600 workers laid off during the shutdown. The smooth brown paper they produce goes to cardboard-making vendors, who sell it in turn to Amazon and other retailers, who ship them to your doorstep.“Brown is the future,” Mr. Strick said one morning this winter at the mill, where he had resumed his job as a maintenance supervisor.Brown paper sales slowed following the Christmas e-commerce rush, but industry analysts say the conditions are still ripe for long-term growth. That’s where China comes in. Until early last year, much of the used cardboard consumed in the United States was being shipped to China, where it was recycled into new boxes.Then, in January 2018, China stopped accepting most used cardboard imports. The material was mixed with so much trash and food contamination that it was causing serious environmental issues. The policy change has disrupted residential recycling programs across the United States, forcing some communities to bury or burn materials they previously recycled. But for American paper companies that make new cardboard out of used boxes, China’s clampdown has been a boon. It has created a glut of cardboard scrap that is allowing American mills to obtain their most vital raw material at 70 percent less than it cost a year ago.A second-century Chinese craft in modern WisconsinIn Combined Locks, paper drives not only the local economy, but the mill’s identity. Its workers almost never say they are “manufacturing” or “producing” paper. They say they are “making” paper, reflecting how the process is still thought of as a craft with a history that dates back to China in 105 A.D.The mill has a powerful presence — as if a sci-fi city has landed in a blue-collar suburb. The facility comprises 1.2 million square feet of cavernous buildings, winding tunnels and snaking railroad tracks. It operates 24 hours a day, its lights blazing and towering stacks steaming even in the dead of night.Across the street is the Lox Club, one of Wisconsin’s traditional “supper clubs.” The bar and restaurant was founded in 1965 by a retired paper mill worker and his wife in a space attached to their house, and the club still has the warm feeling of someone’s home. There are soft reading lamps standing next to comfortable armchairs and an oil painting of two white-tailed deer.Sitting at the bar one night were Steve Gilsdorf and his wife, Karen. They were sipping the club specialty: Old Fashioneds garnished with brussels sprouts. They both work in the paper industry.“Around here, we’ve got the Packers and paper,” said Mr. Gilsdorf, 54, who works for a supplier of paper sheets used to cover exam tables in medical offices.One woman at the bar said she worked part-time for a hand surgeon whose clients often include patients injured in the mills. Another patron bragged about the local high school football team, the Paper Makers, winners of multiple state championships.On some days, the odor of rotten eggs hangs over the village, a smell some residents attribute to another mill in a nearby town that uses sulfur to break wood down into pulp.“I’ve heard,” said Ben Fairweather, head of operations at the Midwest Paper mill, “some people say that is the smell of money.”‘The Silicon Valley of its time’A few miles down the Fox River, in the city of Appleton, sits the Paper Discovery Center museum and the Paper International Hall of Fame. Located in a former mill, the modest shrine honors those whose “accomplishments have truly revolutionized civilization.” Johannes Gutenberg, the inventor of the printing press, has a plaque on the wall. So does Wang Zhen, creator of the world’s first mass-produced book in 14th-century China.Wisconsin has contributed its share of greats to the pantheon of paper. Morris Kuchenbecker, a retired package design engineer from the city of Neenah, patented a series of frozen-food cartons. Ernst Mahler, a chemist, invented the technology that makes tissues soft.The region’s paper history dates to the years following the Civil War, when mills sprung up on along the Fox River to feed the industrializing nation’s demand for reading and writing material and disposable towels. “It was like the Silicon Valley of its time,” said Dan Clarahan, a board member of the Paper Discovery Center. One owner’s home was the first in the nation illuminated by Thomas Edison’s light bulbs.You can still see remnants of paper’s glory years. Stately Victorian homes line many Appleton neighborhoods. The adjoining village of Kimberly is named after one of the founders of Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Kleenex and Huggies. Wisconsin remains one of the nation’s largest paper producers, and much of it is still made in giant mills along the Fox. Today, huge conglomerates like Georgia Pacific, along with a handful of smaller companies, produce paper in the Fox River Valley area. But the industry has been contracting for decades, and it is not only because of the internet. Pricing pressure from giant retailers depressed the profit margins on brand-name paper towels, tissues and toilet paper.In 2000, there were roughly 49,600 paper manufacturing jobs in Wisconsin, according to state figures. By 2017, that work force had declined to about 30,000; the paper industry in the Fox Valley shed half its workers over that time period. Last year, Kimberly-Clark closed one of its Wisconsin plants and received a $28 million state tax subsidy to help keep another location open.In her 23 years in the industry, Airica Hendriks has watched the changes at the mill in Combined Locks with growing unease. Ms. Hendriks, 44, worked her way up from the lowest rank to the role of “coating tender,” applying the starch that make paper more rigid.“Was this my dream job? No,” Ms. Hendriks said. “But it is a job I learned to love. This is just what I do now. I am a paper maker.”Over the years, the mill’s products reflected the world’s evolving uses of paper: phone books, carbon-copy paper, paper for large inkjet printers. The company also had a string of owners. A cash register company. A British tobacco conglomerate. A French investment firm.In recent years, demand for glossy brochures, the mill’s biggest moneymaker, kept falling. Ms. Hendriks said she knew the situation was dire in summer 2017, when her supervisors started “harping” on her not to waste any starch.“They have never cared about these things,” she remembered thinking. “What is going on?”That August, the bank called its loan and required immediate repayment from the mill, citing a technical term in its loan agreement. The paper company filed for receivership, and all 600 workers were told that they were out of a job.The shutdown was a shock. The mill had never closed for more than a week of maintenance, not even during two world wars.Ed Ver Voort, 50, started working at the mill when he was 18. His first job was as a “broke hustler” who scrambled to pick up sheets of paper that would spew off the machine when a roll unexpectedly broke.“I owed everything to this place,” said Mr. Ver Voort, now an assistant superintendent at the mill. “My car, my food, my home. I was able to send my daughter to college working here.”When the mill closed in 2017, most of its workers were able to find manufacturing or warehouse jobs. But these typically paid less than their unionized jobs at the paper mill.Ms. Hendriks got a position at a plastics factory earning about $17 an hour, about $11 less than she made at the paper mill. She canceled cable, quit smoking and sold her plasma to a blood bank for $300 a month. She did that as long as she could — until her arm got sore.‘Do you trust to go back?’The mill appeared destined for the scrap heap. In September 2017, it was purchased out of receivership by a pair of companies that specialized in liquidations.The village quickly passed an ordinance seeking to prevent the new owners from abandoning the property and leaving an environmental mess. The union representing the paper makers and the county executive also filed legal petitions seeking to keep the mill running.The mill’s new owners, who called themselves Midwest Paper Group, eventually agreed that it should be in operation. Across the country, failed white paper mills were being converted to brown to feed the cardboard-box boom, and Midwest followed suit.The Chinese paper company Nine Dragons has acquired a handful of paper mills in Maine, Wisconsin and West Virginia and increased brown pulp and paper production. With China constricting imports of used cardboard, Nine Dragons bought the mills in the United States partly to get closer to the country’s plentiful source of scrap paper. Another major player is the Kraft family, which owns a paper mill and a cardboard boxing plant, in addition to the New England Patriots.“I go into companies where the writing is on the wall, but not in this case,” said Mr. Putzstuck, Midwest Paper Group’s president.A 31-year-old turnaround expert from Chicago, Mr. Putzstuck always seems to be in motion, even when seated. He had worked on a failed mattress company, a refrigerator recycler and an oil-services company, but never a paper maker.But there he was in winter 2017, living in a hotel room near the mill, about to ask dozens of employees whose lives had been upended by the mill’s closure just months before to return to what amounted to a start-up.“It’s a big deal asking people to come back to work when they had gotten other jobs,’’ he said.A big step was persuading the union to agree to a new set of working conditions. The pay stayed largely the same — an average hourly wage of $25.50 — but the company would not contribute to 401(k) funds. Most significantly, the workers would be required to take on duties that previously had been performed by several employees.“Everybody is doing multiple jobs now,” said John Corrigall, the mill’s head of “people, legal and environmental affairs.” Union officials said they were willing to make concessions because the mill needed to get back on its feet. The alternative, the union said, was losing another paper plant forever.Under the new business plan, the mill was not only a paper producer, but also a large recycling facility. The new owners installed an old corrugated container machine, known as an O.C.C., a towering vat of swirling warm water, where large bales of used cardboard boxes are dumped and then ground into the stock that makes the new brown paper.Recycling used cardboard is wet, messy work. One worker said he wanted to vomit while unloading used boxes this summer. “They smelled like fish,” he said.The bales of used boxes, which typically come from homes and large retailers, often contain unpleasant surprises like soda bottles, propane tanks and soccer balls. The workers on the O.C.C. were all required to have tetanus shots.The O.C.C. turns the boxes into a thick, brown gruel. That mixture is then strained of plastic tape, staples and other debris before being pumped into the paper machine.At first, Ms. Hendriks was skeptical about the turnaround plans. “You get kicked in the pants like that — do you trust to go back?” she said.But after touring the mill and seeing new investments like the O.C.C., she called her manager at the plastics factory and told him she was headed back to making paper.“I took a leap of faith that this would be all right,” she said.A final testThe plan to convert the mill to brown paper made business sense to the laid-off workers. They all shopped online and saw the opportunity in cardboard — or containerboard, as it’s known in the industry.But many questioned whether the mill would be able to make brown paper after decades focused on white. The fibers are coarser, which puts more wear on the machines. The Combined Locks mill also lacked a “shoe press” that traditional brown mills use to wring out water.“Brown is a different bird,” said Jerry Meulemans, who is known around the mill as Grizz because of his personality on the job. (“I can be a bear to work with.”)Papermaking is almost entirely automated. But the product is still largely a byproduct of nature, and the process can easily be foiled by the slightest variable.The key is getting the wood fibers in the pulp to bind by using a combination of heat and pressure. With belts and rollers moving at about 25 miles per hour, the machine transforms the soupy pulp into a giant roll of rigid paper that resembles warm, earthy-smelling bread in seconds. If one element isn’t calibrated correctly — too much moisture, a splotch of bacteria — the paper can tear and the roll has to be made again.At 7 a.m. on Dec. 11, 2017, workers gathered for an all-hands meeting in a large, wood-paneled conference room. Speaking to the staff, Mr. Fairweather, the head of operations, listed the Wisconsin mills that had closed recently, including a nearby plant that had been torn down to make way for a housing development called Paper Mill Estates.“Most mills don’t get a second chance,” Mr. Fairweather told those assembled.After the meeting, the workers signed their names on a wall outside the conference room in a show of solidarity. Then they spent the day preparing the idled machinery to restart. The next morning, the workers watched anxiously as the brown pulp flowed into the paper machine. Later in the day, a sample of the mill’s first batch of brown paper was brought to a lab about 20 miles away. The sample was used to make a small section of a cardboard box and then put through a series of strength tests.It was around 5 p.m. when the mill got the results. “It’s good,” the lab reported.The mill was making paper again.On a recent afternoon, the Hot Topic store at the King of Prussia Mall, outside of Philadelphia, teemed with teenagers, 20-somethings and stroller-pushing parents. The shoppers sifted through racks of “Harry Potter” plush dolls, “Riverdale” sweaters and “Kiki’s Delivery Service” jewelry, seeking the perfect physical manifestation of their — or their child’s — fandom.Demitri Benton, 19, of Reading, Pa., had come to browse the shop’s “Deadpool” offerings. “It’s usually the first or maybe second place I come to,” he said. “It has so many things that you probably wouldn’t be able to find in any other store as far as, like, anime, video games, TV shows.”Former mall goths, punks and emo kids may remember the store differently. In the ’90s and early aughts, one did not so much enter as descend into Hot Topic. The suburban shopping center staple was dungeonlike, with hellish gates that led shoppers into a dark commercial corridor. Inside, a wall of T-shirts emblazoned with the names of rock bands and irreverent sayings was flanked by piles of studded belts and rubber bracelets. Manic Panic hair dye could be purchased in a wide range of parent-infuriating hues. Often the shopping experience was set to a blaring soundtrack of Nine Inch Nails and My Chemical Romance (whose frontman — fun fact — once worked at Hot Topic). The massive T-shirt display is still there, and so is much of the infernal darkness. “Literally I have seen people run to the door, and their parents steer them away and say, ‘They worship Satan, we can’t go in there,’” said Alexis Monkiewicz, a key holder at the King of Prussia location. But these days, the store known for inciting parental panic is also home to a dizzying array of obsessions. There’s merch for die-hard fans of BTS, Billie Eilish and Black Sabbath stocked alongside collectibles designed for those who love My Little Pony, Care Bears and the Disney princesses. They’ve even turned the lights up a bit.Though Hot Topic has not publicly disclosed its financials since the private equity firm Sycamore Partners acquired it in June 2013 for about $600 million, the brand’s endurance in the narrowing market of juniors apparel suggests that the brighter, broader inventory is selling. (Sycamore Partners declined to comment for this article.) The company’s sustained brick-and-mortar presence may also indicate its health amid reports of record-high mall vacancies and closures. Hot Topic currently operates 676 stores in the United States and Canada, up from 662 locations in 2014, in addition to an online store where one can buy goods from hundreds of entertainment franchises.In a 2018 report, the youth marketing research firm YPulse found that Gen Z and millennial shoppers deemed Hot Topic the top retail destination for “unique styles,” with Nike coming in second. “What Hot Topic has managed to do really amazingly — and quietly — is to pivot their products and their brand perception to cater to the next generation and what they’re most interested in,” said MaryLeigh Bliss, the vice president of content at Ypulse. “They have completely kept up with what young consumers want.”Steve Vranes, the C.E.O. of Hot Topic since June 2016, said that he had watched the company’s evolution “from afar” through his work in retail before he joined the company. His résumé includes the children’s clothier Gymboree and Urbio, a design company that manufactures vertical gardens. “I knew it had changed a little bit and had gone from being considered solely as more of a goth brand to really evolving to be a much broader set of products over time,” Mr. Vranes said. “It’s kind of organically continued to change all the time, and I think that’s part of why we’re successful. We continue to question every single year, ‘What do customers want that they’re not getting anywhere else?’”What they want, it seems, is merch, and Hot Topic has plenty. According to a company representative, more than 75 percent of Hot Topic’s products are the result of agreements with intellectual property owners, including record labels and entertainment studios, to license their official merchandise. That means you can buy an Ariana Grande “Sweetener” T-shirt on the artist’s website, if you want. Or you can buy it on hottopic.com, where you won’t get a digital album download with your purchase, but you’ll spend less money.Hot Topic has always been home to affordable fan gear. Orv and LeAnn Madden, who started the store out of their Southern California garage in October 1989, sold “The Nightmare Before Christmas” stockings and “South Park” stickers when those franchises had but nascent fandoms. Hot Topic was also among the first youth retailers to offer plus-size options, which sold so well that the company started a plus-size label, Torrid, in 2001. Seeing a growth opportunity, Sycamore Partners spun off Torrid into its own company in 2015. (Such investments have been key to Sycamore’s success — and caused the ire of some interested parties. Hot Topic Inc. bondholders sued Sycamore in 2017 for what they described as an “insider scheme” to profit from the company’s “crown jewel.”)Hot Topic’s wholesale catering to fans likely began around 2004, said Ed Labay, the vice president of merchandise. That was the year “Napoleon Dynamite” became a cultural phenomenon — Hot Topic’s “Vote for Pedro” T-shirts flew off the shelves — and when, Mr. Labay said, “we really started to see these pop culture moments hit in a much bigger way than I think they ever had before.”The company experienced another surge in 2008, when “Twilight” fans were treated with in-store events and merchandise around the first film’s release. But even Edward Cullen couldn’t inoculate Hot Topic against the retail apocalypse that has roiled physical stores and shopping centers since the Great Recession. That same year, the company announced a music discovery platform, ShockHound, which never took off and cost the company at least $3 million. In late 2010, The Los Angeles Times reported on a financial dip at Hot Topic that led to staff cuts and store closures. “Hot Topic was not immune to the broader consumer spending slowdown during the recession,” Mr. Vranes said.Ultimately those losses were cause to think bigger, not smaller. In 2012, Hot Topic began a partnership with Her Universe, a women’s wear company for “fangirls,” then acquired it in 2016. In 2015, Hot Topic Inc. founded BoxLunch, another chain offering licensed and unlicensed fan merchandise. The brand also established a presence at Comic-Con in San Diego, Los Angeles and New York. For years, Hot Topic has been a sponsor of a “geek couture” fashion show at San Diego’s Comic-Con with Her Universe.The company still relies heavily on in-store sales. In a recent credit analysis, Moody’s projected that Hot Topic would see “modest” revenue growth in 2019, in part from the uptick in its e-commerce sector, its reasonable prices (the average cost per item is $12) and the promotional surges surrounding big-ticket movie releases.The expansion of Hot Topic’s mandate has helped keep the company afloat in an uncertain retail landscape. It is also evocative of a cultural shift: Now people can be a part of many fan communities, even seemingly divergent ones, and be taken seriously. “When we were in our early teens, you had to label yourself as something. You were a punk, or a jock, or you listened to hip-hop. That was your whole identity,” said T.J. Petracca, a founder of the roving party Emo Nite, which licenses some of its merchandise to Hot Topic. These days, he said, “if you like Drake, you can also like Panic! at the Disco. There’s not as much separation as there used to be.”The specific density of objects and apparel within the stores conveys that, too. Mr. Labay likened Hot Topic’s layout to the inside of “a teen’s mind,” or a constantly updating social media feed. Mr. Vranes said that the store “is a reflection of all of the changes from a content perspective, and all of the access that fans have to these different properties and bands and artists and shows.” (His fandom of choice is “Game of Thrones.”)The internet, especially Tumblr, has helped bring these worlds together. It has also changed the meaning of community for fans across the pop culture spectrum. The ability to connect over the internet, said Susan Kresnicka, who runs the business anthropology firm Kresnicka Research & Insights, changed “what made you feel like an outsider and slightly abnormal in a previous era” into a means of connecting with other obsessed fans. “If you can go online and find that there are people all over this world that are fans of this one little idiosyncratic television show that you happen to love with all your heart, you don’t feel quite so weird or not mainstream yourself,” Ms. Kresnicka said.For teenagers who don’t have the money to attend concerts or Comic-Con, and particularly for those who don’t live in urban areas, Hot Topic’s stores function as critical meeting places. “The presence of Hot Topic in malls is related to the presence of convention,” said Louisa Stein, an associate professor of film and media culture at Middlebury College. “There’s a place you can go and kind of have your fan identity acknowledged in physical space and see other fans in that space with you.”The company also frequently holds contests where people can submit T-shirt designs for movie and TV merch. The winners’ artworks are sold in stores nationwide.The conversations between fans and Hot Topic can be highly specific. In the fall of 2018, the retailer caused a stir by listing a T-shirt on its website as “Destiel”: a portmanteau of two “Supernatural” characters, Dean and Castiel, whose onscreen chemistry is the subject of much fan fiction, as well as contention. (The dedication of the “Supernatural” fandom is largely what has kept the show on the air for 14 seasons despite poor ratings, and the show’s writers have been known to make cheeky references to fan theories in scripts. “Supernatural” is now set to end after its 15th season.)Hot Topic was seen to be taking a side in the dispute by naming the shirt Destiel, and fans feverishly discussed whether the show would pursue a more explicit Destiel story line, said Rachel Aparicio, a media and gender studies scholar at Kresnicka Research & Insights, and a “Supernatural” fan herself. “It definitely signaled a shift to me in watching how the company is engaging with fandom, and doing it at a level that is very insider with something like that,” she said. To wit: On one “Supernatural” episode, Castiel buys a younger character a plush toy and says, “I got it at the Hot Topical.” Hot Topic then began selling shirts that read: “I got it at the Hot Topical.” (Hot Topic has since pulled the Destiel shirt. When asked, Mr. Labay said he “cannot confirm or deny” that he knows anything about it.)Some may call it a niche reference. But for fans, that’s the whole point.LONDON — Debenhams' lenders took control of the ailing British retailer on Tuesday in a process designed to keep its shops open at the expense of shareholders, including an irate Mike Ashley, who were wiped out.Once the country's biggest department store chain, Debenhams had been hit by a sharp slowdown in sales, high rents and ballooning debt, plus an acrimonious power struggle with billionaire Ashley's Sports Direct.Administrators were appointed on Tuesday after Ashley's last-ditch bid to rescue the company failed. They sold the group to its creditors including British banks and U.S. hedge funds. Ashley, the owner of Premier League Newcastle United, had spent tens of millions of pounds building up a 30 percent stake and months trying to wrest control of the business. He reacted angrily to the move. It was "nothing short of a national scandal", he said, with the board of Debenhams "playing its part through incompetence, or worse, through collusion."Whilst these hedge funds look to close a significant number of stores and put thousands of people out of work, as politicians and regulators look on, I will go to the ends of the earth to save as many Debenhams stores and jobs as I can," he said.Tuesday's deal will keep Debenhams' 166 UK stores trading for the time being, administrators from FTI Consulting said. Suppliers, workers, pension holders and customers will also not be affected.But they said an existing plan to close 50 underperforming stores and demand rent cuts was "critical" to its survival. The restructuring puts about 4,000 jobs at risk. Debenhams' descent into administration is another blow to a retail sector already reeling from the collapse of BHS, music store HMV, electronics firm Maplin, department store House of Fraser and cycle shop Evans. The latter two were snapped up by Ashley. "It is disappointing to reach a conclusion that will result in no value for our equity holders," Chairman Terry Duddy said. "However, this transaction will allow Debenhams to continue trading as normal, access the funding we need and proceed with executing our turnaround plans whilst deleveraging the group's balance sheet."WIPE OUTIn business since 1778, Debenhams has been battling for survival after a consumer shift online and to cheaper outlets left it with too much retail space on struggling high streets, destroying 90 percent of its share value in the past year.With a flagship store on London's Oxford Street, the group was too slow to adapt. Its stores - among the largest on Britain's retail map - are burdened with high rents, business rates and staffing levels, while it has had to discount heavily to drive clothing sales.At the time of its collapse it had debt of up to 720 million pounds ($940 million) and a market valuation of just 22 million pounds. In 2018 it had 19 million customers and 2.9 billion pounds in sales. Hargreaves Lansdown analyst Laith Khalaf said it had been downhill for the group since it floated on the stock market - for the third time - in 2006."We can still expect Debenhams to continue trading, though store closures are inevitable as Debenhams cuts its cloth to fit today's increasingly digital retail environment," he said. It also has stores in Ireland and owns Denmark's Magasin du Nord. Debenhams' new owners have put the chain up for sale, so Ashley could still play a role but he would likely need to take on large parts of the retailers' debt, Khalaf said.Ashley had offered a rescue plan, but with the condition he was appointed chief executive. With tensions increasing between the two sides, Ashley even demanded that Debenhams board members take lie detector tests. A person familiar with the situation told Reuters that Debenhams feared that if Ashley became CEO he would renege on his financial promise and put it into administration himself, allowing him to select only the stores he wanted to own. Sports Direct said that, following the administration, it did not intend to make an offer for the company.  (Editing by Keith Weir and John Stonestreet)PARIS — Societe Generale plans to cut 1,600 jobs, mainly at its corporate and investment banking arm, in an attempt to boost profits after a poor performance last year, France's third-largest bank said on Tuesday. The move is part of a plan announced in February to cut 500 million euros ($563 million) in costs in corporate and investment banking after a steep market downturn forced it to lower revenue and profitability targets."Since early February, we have carried out a review of all the activities of corporate and investment banking. Our goal is to restore the business' profitability above the cost of capital," said Severin Cabannes, SocGen's deputy CEO and the head of its corporate and investment banking arm.The bank, which employs 18,000 people in 30 countries in corporate and investment banking, said it would cut 750 jobs in France, where all redundancies will be voluntary. People will be offered a financial incentive or another job within the bank.Other cuts, mainly in New York and London, may see the bank fire people.About 50 jobs of traders are likely to be cut in France, a union representative said. "These people are difficult to move within the bank because in any other job they would lose bonuses that represent a significant part of their income," the union representative said. Profits at SocGen's corporate and investment banking arm fell by more than half in the fourth quarter of last year. Bruno Benoit, the head of Fixed Income & Currencies at SocGen's markets unit, is leaving the bank, it said.SocGen's shares were up 0.3 percent at 1015 GMT. "SocGen does not have a choice: increased regulation, high capital requirements and very intensive capital demand to run trading businesses make it a business not profitable," said Clairinvest fund manager Ion-Marc Valahu.DESCARTES DUMPED SocGen will also close some businesses, such as Descartes proprietary trading, and downsize others.For example, it plans to end over-the-counter commodity trading and reduce the size of its fixed-income arm. Associated jobs from support functions will also go, Cabannes said.The bank will focus on businesses where it competes successfully on the world stage such as equity derivatives and private banking, and will try to improve the performance of asset management unit Lyxor, he added.SocGen will also stop serving some clients who are insufficiently profitable. After years of low interest rates curtailed returns for retail banking, SocGen, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and other big European banks have relied on the more volatile earnings from corporate and investment banking, with mixed results.Although shares of other major European banks have bounced back this year, SocGen's are down by more than three percent so far in 2019 amid concerns over solvency and profitability. The stock has lost more than 39 percent over the past 12 months.Under pressure from investors, CEO Frederic Oudea has said SocGen will sell more assets than originally planned to boost its solvency ratios.The bank expects to free up to 10 billion euros in capital as part of Tuesday's reorganization. In recent European Central Bank 'stress tests', SocGen was the weakest big French bank. The redundancies will also affect the headquarters of its international retail banking unit in Paris. As the French bank has withdrawn from Eastern Europe, it requires fewer people to oversee retail banks abroad, Cabannes said. (Reporting by Inti Landauro and Matthieu Protard; Editing by Sudip Kar-Gupta and Mark Potter)The new jobs numbers reported Friday are not spectacular by the standards of the last couple of years. But they also signify a sigh of relief.A weak job growth number in February had appeared to be the most solid evidence yet that the United States economy was slowing, and perhaps even that the expansion might be near an end. The Labor Department originally reported that employers added a mere 20,000 jobs that month. Even after new revisions, that number came in at only 33,000.The March number — 196,000 positions added last month — makes clear that February was an aberration, not a trend. For all the fluctuations in financial markets and pessimistic commentary at the end of last year, the great American job creation machine is still humming.Over the last six months, the economy has averaged 207,000 new jobs a month, which is actually better than the results in 2017 and only slightly behind the rates of 2018.But even as the numbers give some assurance that the economy isn’t falling off a cliff, there’s nothing in it that will give the Federal Reserve reason to reconsider its approach on interest rates.Average hourly earnings rose only 0.1 percent in March, and are up 3.2 percent over the last year. Inflation is low enough that this represents rising incomes for American workers. But this is hardly the stuff of an inflationary outbreak that the Fed will feel compelled to stop with an increase in interest rates.The Fed, which has decided to put off rate increases indefinitely, has become increasingly comfortable with a tight labor market and jobless rates that, in the past, it would have viewed as a precursor to overheating. With the March rate at 3.8 percent, the jobless rate has been at 4 percent or lower for a full year.The stable unemployment rate in March masked negative trends in the share of Americans looking for work. The labor force participation rate fell by 0.2 of a percentage point, and the ratio of the adult population working fell by 0.1 percent.That is probably a statistical aberration, but taken at face value it implies that the progress toward pulling more Americans into the work force has not been as consistent and compelling as it had seemed.Combined with other significant data points — like surveys of business activity and retail sales — the latest readings on the labor market support the idea that this is a resilient economy. In December, a sharp sell-off in the stock market coincided with a rise in pessimism in surveys of business leaders.The report is a reminder that even if growth slows in 2019, which forecasters expect, a slowdown is not the same as a recession, and certainly not the same as a collapse. So far, the ominous signs about the economy — such as longer-term interest rates falling below some short-term rates, and weak reports on retail sales in December and on the labor market in February — are not reasons to panic.In other words, as long as employers ignore the latest fluctuations in financial markets and make their hiring and investment decisions based on demand for their products (which is strong) and availability of credit (which is easy), this expansion should have room to run yet.(Reuters) - The pace of falls in like-for-like store sales at baby products retailer Mothercare Plc eased slightly in the final quarter of its 2019 fiscal year, but the company said British and international market conditions remained challenging.UK like-for-like sales fell 8.8 percent in the 12 weeks to March 30 and were down 10.8 percent for the full-year, the company said. That compared with declines of more than 11 percent for the third quarter and the first half year.Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations international retail sales fell 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter, compared to a 1.1 percent fall in the third quarter.Mothercare's main UK business has been losing money for more than a decade as its traditional place on the UK high street collapses in the face of a new generation of online players, forcing the company to unveil a survival plan in July that closed over a third of its UK stores."The UK store closure programme has been completed ahead of schedule and we now have 80 stores in operation, down from 137 stores a year ago," Chief Executive Officer Mark Newton-Jones said in a trading update on Thursday.He said "disruptions" from its cost-saving initiatives are now largely behind it, that it has cleared a lot of unsold stock and is on track to deliver on previous expectations for the full year. Mothercare's combined credit score, which measures on a scale of 100 to 1 how likely a company is to default on its debts in the next year, was "1" as of Thursday, according to Refinitiv Eikon data, indicating it was expected to default.The company had in March said it was aiming to be debt free by the end of this year, with proceeds from the sale of its educational toy brand ELC, helping it alleviate some of that.Interactive graphic on Mothercare's operations - https://tmsnrt.rs/2HYy3ap (Reporting by Sangameswaran S and Pushkala Aripaka in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)One recent afternoon, I took a cab down to Hudson Yards from the Upper West Side. With little prompting, the driver lamented how the development had taken away two things he’d held sacred: the relative calm of the neighborhood before development started and the view eastward of the Midtown skyline, now obscured. After a rueful few seconds, he mumbled, “I feel choked.”Certainly, there is a falsity to the Hudson Yards complex, which sits atop an active train yard and shoots up to the sky impressively but generally thoughtlessly. But to be fair, the whole of 11th Avenue is a zoo of gauche intrusions, from the residential developments in the 60s to the car dealerships in the 50s all the way down to the renovated industrial buildings in the 20s. There’s never been a true neighborhood along it. Why start now?Agita of that sort is why, so often in recent weeks, you’ve heard that Hudson Yards is New York City’s Dubai. That’s a grave insult to Dubai, where there are indoor surfing waves and artificial islands shaped like all the countries of the globe.More accurately, Hudson Yards is Midtown’s Battery Park City, both less insidious and more mundane than how it has been advertised. Up top, it’s gleaming, but at ground level, it’s deeply unromantic. When you come up the escalator from the 7 train station, what you see first aren’t artisanal food trucks, but regular coffee and hot dog carts. From the front, the building that houses the Shops & Restaurants at Hudson Yards is shiny but unremarkable; look up and you’re greeted by the posteriors of Lululemon mannequins.The Hudson Yards shopping complex is two malls in one, really. The first is at the top and bottom: The fifth floor (and above) has the first New York outposts of two Dallas multibrand retail forces — Neiman Marcus, the 110-plus-year and 40-plus-store luxury specialist, and Forty Five Ten, a forward-looking emporium just beginning to develop a national presence. The ground level features stand-alone storefronts for Fendi, Coach, Tory Burch, Dunhill and others, as well as Rolex, Cartier and Piaget.And then there’s everything in between, largely of spick-and-span versions of chain stores available at dozens of other places in the city. The result has the feel of one of New York’s 80/20 buildings, where a certain percentage of apartments in new construction are given over to affordable housing as a make-good for a whole heap of market-rate chicanery. I would not be surprised to learn that there is a secret elevator that goes straight from a private car entrance to the fifth floor.Up on 5, the diversity of rich people on three recent visits was staggering: people with $300 sneakers, and also with $1,200 sneakers; art-gallery-owner chic, and Upper East Side matriarch chic; people who D.J. for bottle service clubs, and people who buy bottle service; young people with designer fanny packs who looked like Jerrika Karlae, or Jimin, or Davido, or Anuel AA and Karol G. By contrast, on the third floor, a smiling kid wearing a hoodie from Anuel AA and Karol G’s tour was going up and down the escalators, having a great time.NEIMAN MARCUS AND FORTY FIVE TEN together make for a worthy addition to the city’s retail landscape. Forty Five Ten is broken into four distinct storefronts, making the fifth floor feel like a theme park. There is a well-stocked women’s designer section, a cluster of emerging designers, some vintage and a men’s section. The Forty Five Ten in Dallas is so effective because it has the most forward-looking brand mix in the city. Here, though, in the men’s department, the thick scrums of Rick Owens, Thom Browne and Stone Island feel predictable, a selection salvaged by a handful of stunning pieces: an oversize yellow print parka with aviator hood from Takahiromiyashita the Soloist ($2,500) and a ruggedly cut military-style jacket with detachable liner by Jil Sander ($2,750).The women’s store is far more effective, with wilder styles from a wider range of companies: a short-sleeved cropped floral sweater from Molly Goddard ($350) just a couple of feet from a stunning princess cape covered in glittery embroidery by Rodarte ($10,388); a Monse patchwork wrap skirt and shorts set made of what looked like rep-tie-patterned silk ($1,890) and also a sharp black top with architectural pouf sleeves from Dice Kayek ($1,195). The emerging designer space had less ornate forms of cleverness: diffusion prairie dresses from Batsheva, stern folk-art slides from Nicole Saldana, nü-basics from Sandy Liang and Eckhaus Latta. And in the vintage shop, there are framed copies of Avant Garde magazine, from the company president’s personal collection. (Not for sale, sadly.)On a recent Saturday, Neiman Marcus, which begins on the fifth floor and rises two more, felt like a true amusement park. In the men’s section, there was a foosball table, an arcade game and a Skee-Ball game all getting loads of use. But at any given time, only a handful of clerks were working, eyeing the huge floor like a center fielder at Fenway. The selection was wide but not particularly deep. Some fine-enough Balenciaga and a Burberry collection that could plausibly pass for bootleg. There were generous helpings of Kiton and Brunello Cucinelli. But the real showcase was the shoe section. Now me, I’m old enough to remember when you had to hunt for $1,000 sneakers, but here they all are, indifferent to who might buy them. The only refreshing disruption was a thorough selection of Lucchese boots, the biggest in the city. I tried on a $3,000 pair of alligator boots, and immediately my posture improved. They made me feel beautiful (and also poor).Even though this Neiman Marcus is vast, it’s less a space for serious clothes shopping and more for superluxe trinkets, which is why the whole of the fifth floor is given over to bags, shoes, scarves and other low-hanging fruit of wealth signification, whether it’s a saddle bag from the Row ($1,980) only a few will be able to identify or a graffitied kitten heel from Balenciaga that will lose half its value the moment it leaves the store. A woman walked up to the display of exquisitely brittle-looking René Caovilla sandals and whispered to her partner, “Cinderella shoesssss.” You will never miss Phoebe Philo more than when looking at the spiceless wall of Celine handbags here.ONCE YOU GO BELOW THE FIFTH FLOOR, however, things change radically. Given the size of this building, there is surprisingly little shopping to be done. I’ve never been somewhere where the ratio of people walking through the halls to those actually in a store was as high as it was on the middle floors here. Those spaces feel more like tourist attractions, especially given the large-scale art installations scattered throughout. Much of the art is interactive, meant for lingering: a wall of scrapable sequins by Lara Schnitger, which never didn’t have a few dozen teenagers fiddling with it; pastel industrial-collapse animal statue benches from Serban Ionescu, which provided succor for glum-looking shoppers; a psychedelic mural with embedded QR codes from Jeanette Hayes. (Whoever selected the artists follows the same people on Instagram that I do. Please contact me for your future curatorial needs.)Even though there are plenty of attractions and distractions, the act of actually accommodating people still feels like a challenge. The mall is curiously under-bathroomed, and trash and recycling bins aren’t prominent. The music can be comically loud, like the hi-NRG goth-SoulCycle assault that defied Shazaming.That tension, between being a place for people to shop and a place for people to merely linger and marvel, is the clearest on the ground floor. Cartier, Piaget, Rolex — inside, they’re beatific, and there are guards at the doors to ensure they remain that way. Out in the corridors, greeters in black suits and blue ties enthusiastically guide lost tourists to the escalators, perhaps hoping they’ll be sated by some H&M or Athleta, or some ice cream from Van Leeuwen (which always had a line).The grimmest space in the whole building is the art store near the exit, Avant Gallery, which sells overpriced, absurd post-graffiti canvases that would be gauche even in the middle of a third-tier suburban mall.For a development whose idea of an art installation is the staircase-to-nowhere Vessel, as conceptually rigorous as the sprinkle pit at the ice cream museum, this perhaps isn’t much of a surprise. But as a barometer of the level of sophistication the owners expect of their customers, it’s telling. They’re counting on the fact that money doesn’t know where it came from, and it doesn’t care where it goes — all the way to the sky, or buried deep in the ground.PARIS — France's Societe Generale plans to cut about 600 jobs at its investment banking unit in Paris and a few hundred more in London and New York, a source at the bank said on Friday.SocGen's Chief Executive Frederic Oudea said two months ago the bank would cut costs by 500 million euros (429.63 million pounds) at its corporate and investment banking business after the unit's profits fell by more than half in the fourth quarter.The bank intends to shift its focus to activities such as equity derivatives, scaling back its fixed-income, currencies and commodities business.SocGen management is due to meet with union representatives to discuss a plan early next week, the source said. "The job cuts will be carried out through voluntary departures," a union representative said on Friday. "This would affect corporate and investment banking jobs as well as people working for dedicated support functions," the representative added.A bank spokesman declined to comment.SocGen Deputy CEO Severin Cabannes, who oversees the corporate and investment banking unit which employs 18,000 people in 30 countries, said in February the restructuring plan would likely include job cuts, but he said it was too early to evaluate how many.In February, the bank fired its head of trading, Frank Drouet, replacing him with Jean-Francois Gregoire, the deputy chief risk officer.After years of low interest rates curtailed returns for retail banking, SocGen, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and other big European banks have relied on the more volatile earnings from corporate and investment banking.Although shares of other major European banks have bounced back this year, SocGen shares are still down three percent. The stock has lost 39 percent over the past 12 months.Oudea, who lowered the bank's profitability targets on Feb. 7 for the third time since he took the helm in 2008, is under pressure from investors and has said the bank will sell more assets than originally planned, mainly in Eastern Europe, to boost the bank's equity ratios. The board has recommended shareholders vote in favour of a new four-year term as CEO at a general meeting next month. (Reporting by Matthieu Protard and Inti Landauro; Editing by GV De Clercq and Kirsten Donovan)MEXICO CITY — Walmart's Mexico unit has penalized food companies supplying groceries to rival Amazon, pressure that has forced some to pull their products from the world's largest online retailer, four people familiar with the matter said.The tough tactics come as the two giants battle for supremacy in one of their most important foreign markets, one that Walmart currently dominates. Walmart last year demanded discounts from food businesses whose products it found priced lower on the Mexican website of Amazon.com Inc, the people said, even though suppliers had no say in the Seattle retailer's decision to undercut Walmart on price. Two suppliers told Reuters they moved swiftly to pull their brands from Amazon, wary of jeopardizing their relationship with Walmart de Mexico. The companies, both of which sell common pantry goods, said Walmart accounts for more than half their supermarket sales in Mexico.Walmart would not discuss its competition with Amazon in Mexico or the allegations made by suppliers. It told Reuters it does not dictate with whom vendors can do business. But it acknowledged it always presses for the lowest prices, particularly if competitors are giving shoppers a better deal. "We could never tell anybody that they can't sell to someone else," Ignacio Caride, Walmart Mexico's e-commerce head, told Reuters. "If we think there's an opportunity to lower our prices, because we see better prices at other retailers, we're going to negotiate for that access," he said.The company said in a statement that it aims to offer the lowest possible prices to benefit consumers, and doesn't subsidize losses for some products with revenues from others. Amazon declined to comment. Walmart is Mexico's largest retailer, commanding nearly 60 percent of the country's supermarket sales through more than 2,400 Walmart, Superama, Sam's Club and Bodega Aurrera stores. Its online business in Mexico is growing fast, but it represented just 1.4 percent of revenue last year.Graphic - Walmart, giant of Mexican supermarkets: https://tmsnrt.rs/2I7GyA7Amazon launched its Mexican website in 2015 and is now one of the country's biggest online retailers. It began selling groceries here in August.Supermarket analyst Bill Bishop said Walmart wants to avoid a repeat of its experience in the United States, where Amazon quickly took the lead in online grocery sales. Walmart Inc's Mexico unit is its second-largest overseas market by sales after the United Kingdom, on par with Canada.Graphic - Walmart's top 10 foreign markets: https://tmsnrt.rs/2HZqhgp"They're worried that Amazon will grow in Mexico," said Bishop, co-founder of retail advisory firm Brick Meets Click in Barrington, Illinois. "They're saying: Be aware of the fact that we're not going to make it easy for you to grow here," he said. The two Mexican suppliers who spoke to Reuters said they were caught in the crossfire. They said their wholesale prices were the same for both retailers, but that Amazon chose to sell their products to consumers more cheaply than Walmart did.Instead of lowering its retail prices to match those of Amazon, Walmart took it out on them, the vendors said. Walmart docked their payments by the retail price difference, multiplied by the amount of stock in its inventory, a move that cost them tens of thousands of dollars collectively, the people said.Both said they entered into talks with Amazon shortly afterward to drop their products. They said they could not afford continued financial clawbacks from Walmart. Nor could they risk losing their biggest customer, despite the huge sales potential offered by Amazon's platform."It's a threat, and it's coercion," one of the people said of Walmart's strategy.Emails between Amazon and one of the food companies, seen by Reuters, support the version of events described by suppliers. Two other people familiar with the matter who have expertise in e-commerce in Mexico gave similar accounts. A cellphone message sent by another supplier to one of the e-commerce professionals discussing its woes with Walmart, reviewed by Reuters, likewise confirmed the situation.PLAYING HARDBALLExperts say Walmart's pressure on its suppliers in Mexico is unlikely to have legal repercussions. Miguel Flores, a former member of Mexico's competition commission, said a government investigation into abuse of dominant market power would be complex, lengthy and hard to prove.Mexico's competition regulator declined to comment.Walmart, the world's largest bricks-and-mortar retailer, and Amazon, the No. 1 online seller, are vying for consumer loyalty worldwide.Both companies have been pressuring suppliers for the lowest prices on goods from t-shirts to bicycles. And Walmart has spent big to build up its shopping website, delivery network and cloud computing infrastructure to compete with Amazon online.Still, Amazon has raced ahead in online food shopping. It notched $3.4 billion in U.S. grocery sales last year compared with Walmart's $2 billion in U.S. online food sales, according to Boston-based research firm Edge by Ascential.Amazon's grocery selection in Mexico currently is limited to non-perishables, such as coffee, beer, pasta and canned vegetables. Walmart offers a wider selection, including fresh foods such as lettuce and chicken.Walmart brought its concerns about Amazon's lower prices to a number of food suppliers in Mexico, including multinational firms, around the time that Amazon launched its food and drinks web page, said two of the people in Mexico's e-commerce industry who requested anonymity due to the sensitivity of business relationships.They said some of the biggest firms figured out ways to appease Walmart, such as packaging their products for Amazon in sizes different from those sold at Walmart, they said.But many of the smaller companies lacked the know-how to negotiate, they said. Bishop, the supermarket analyst, said Mexican suppliers feel enormous pressure to stick with Walmart, at least for now. "The dilemma is that Amazon is a very rapidly growing channel," he said.  (Reporting by Daina Beth Solomon in Mexico City; Additional Reporting by Nandita Bose in Washington; Editing by Frank Jack Daniel and Marla Dickerson)LONDON — Britons have carried on spending despite their "Brexit fatigue," Tesco said on Wednesday, as a forecast-beating rise in profits confirmed a turnaround at Britain's biggest retailer.Celebrating its 100th year, Tesco is deep into a recovery plan under Chief Executive Dave Lewis after a 2014 accounting scandal capped a dramatic downturn in its fortunes. "After four years we have met or are about to meet the vast majority of our turnaround goals," the former Unilever executive said. "I'm very confident that we will finish the job this year." The 2018-19 results reflected revamped relationships with suppliers, lower prices versus major competitors, simplified and better quality product ranges and improved store standards.Lewis said customers had responded well to the company's "Exclusively at Tesco" brands, with 84 percent of them trying the products.The improvements have helped Tesco steer a steady course through a period of industry turmoil, as the country prepares to leave the European Union and as Tesco's two biggest competitors try to merge to become the new industry number one.Lewis said almost every assumption made when he set recovery targets had been up-ended by events such as Brexit, which has caused the pound to fall and a deepening political crisis. Customers were suffering "Brexit fatigue", Lewis said, but were not changing their shopping habits or stockpiling."We've not seen any softening (in consumer confidence)," he told reporters. "We've not seen any discernable change in buying behaviour through the fourth quarter or indeed into the early part of this year."BREXIT CONTINGENCIESShares in Tesco, which have risen by nearly a quarter this year and reached a six-month high on Tuesday, were up 0.8 percent at 235.87 pence at 0940 GMT.Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, said Lewis had "delivered the goods"."The core grocery business is ticking along nicely, profitability has improved markedly and the prospective threat from an Asda-Sainsbury combination is receding in the face of regulatory opposition," he said.Tesco has a leading 27.4 percent share of Britain's grocery market, according to the latest industry data, and looks set to retain that place after the competition regulator said in February it was minded to block Sainsbury's ($9.6 billion) (7.3 billion pounds) takeover of Walmart's Asda. While Brexit was not impacting customers, the effects were being seen on Tesco's balance sheet as steps to secure supplies hit working capital."We have been proactive where we can in taking some provision if there were to be a difficulty; that impacts on the timing of the working capital in the business," Lewis said."It's dry, non-perishable items where it's possible for our ourselves or our suppliers to hold stock."Analysts at Bernstein said full-year retail free cash of 906 million pounds fell short of its 1.22 billion pound target due to the timing of receivables and Brexit-related stock building, but a lot of that would reverse.Aside from working capital, Tesco beat market forecasts for profit, and was firmly on track to meet its margin goals.Operating profit jumped 34 percent to 2.21 billion pounds for the year ended Feb. 23, while the company declared a dividend of 5.77 pence per share, up 92 percent.Group sales rose 11.5 percent to 56.9 billion pounds and Tesco recorded its 13th quarter of like-for-like sales growth in its main UK market with a 1.7 percent rise in the final quarter.The operating profit margin was 3.79 percent in the second half, excluding Tesco's acquisition of wholesaler Booker, Lewis said, "comfortably within" the 3.5-4.0 percent target range set for this financial year. (Reporting by Paul Sandle; Editing by Kate Holton and Mark Potter)SAN FRANCISCO — Paul Chou was among the many Bitcoin aficionados who thought big Wall Street institutions were about to become heavy hitters in the cryptocurrency markets.Mr. Chou came from one of those institutions, Goldman Sachs, and created a cryptocurrency exchange, LedgerX, that would cater to big investors with sophisticated financial contracts.Now, in the wake of last year’s Bitcoin crash, Mr. Chou is being forced to confront how few of the big finance companies acted on their cryptocurrency plans.“It was definitely part of the original plan that institutions would be a big part of this market,” he said. “We were wrong.”Goldman Sachs said it was opening a Bitcoin trading operation to serve clients. A year later, customer interest has been weak, and the bank has not received regulatory approval to buy and hold actual Bitcoins for customers, according to a person familiar with the operation, who was not authorized to comment on it publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity.The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange has been forced to delay the opening of the cryptocurrency exchange it announced last year, and there is still no clear sign of when it will get the approval needed from regulators. The exchange declined to comment.And the Chicago Board Options Exchange said last month that it was going to stop offering a Bitcoin trading contract that it started with great fanfare in late 2017.The faltering efforts among big financial outfits are part of a retrenchment in the cryptocurrency industry after last year’s bust, when the price of a single Bitcoin fell from nearly $20,000 to around $4,000. It has lingered there for months, but had an unexpected jolt on Tuesday, briefly exceeding $5,000.Some cryptocurrency enthusiasts had hoped that the entrance of Wall Street institutions would give them legitimacy with traditional investors. But their struggles — and waning interest — illustrate the difficulty in bringing Bitcoin from the fringes of the internet into the mainstream financial world.“The smart money knows that crypto is not ready,” said Ciaran Murray, a cryptocurrency trader in London.Mr. Murray tried to set up a hedge fund focused on digital tokens, but he found that when investors dug into the technology they were turned off.“Once you get into the details, it scared them off,” he said.Mr. Murray and other cryptocurrency believers are adamant that the problems are not a death blow for Bitcoin and the technology it introduced. Mr. Chou, for example, is retooling LedgerX and applying for regulatory approval to open trading to small retail investors, whose interest in cryptocurrencies has held up a bit more.And the big companies haven’t entirely walked away. Goldman and the parent company of the New York Stock Exchange, Intercontinental Exchange, are moving ahead with their cryptocurrency trading operations despite tepid interest from customers. The giant asset manager Fidelity recently began working with a small number of big clients that want to hold cryptocurrencies.In Silicon Valley, Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter and the online payments company Square, announced last month that he was looking to hire three or four Bitcoin developers. He compared the technology to the early internet, both in its problems and its potential.Even in this “crypto winter,” as some are calling it, the depressed price of Bitcoin is still four times higher than it was at a peak in 2013, before an earlier crash.But few of the more practical ambitions for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have been realized, and it can still be hard to determine what is real and what is not real around digital tokens.An American company looking to set up Bitcoin investment funds, Bitwise Asset Management, recently said it had determined that 95 percent of the trading activity reported by Bitcoin exchanges around the world was fake.The structure of Bitcoin makes it hard to maintain control. All Bitcoins are accounted for on a decentralized ledger, known as the blockchain, which no single institution controls. Anyone can have access to it, giving free rein to bad actors.Regulators have not approved investment products tied to Bitcoin because of the likelihood that prices are being manipulated. But exchanges where investors can bet on the price movement of Bitcoin through futures contracts, without having to hold Bitcoins, have gained approval.The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, or C.M.E. has introduced a Bitcoin futures contract that has gained moderate traction with traders. Still, the market has been small enough that the C.M.E.’s competitor, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, said recently that it would stop issuing its own Bitcoin futures contract.Many market watchers have said that for Bitcoin to gain deeper traction with big investors, those investors will have to be able to buy and hold actual Bitcoins.Intercontinental Exchange had initially said it hoped to open up its cryptocurrency exchange, Bakkt, last fall, with the ability for investors to end up holding the Bitcoins they bought. Goldman Sachs also said last year that it was hoping to allow its customers to buy and hold Bitcoins.The Bakkt and Goldman Sachs efforts are still in limbo because of questions from regulators about how the institutions would hold Bitcoins for clients. Bakkt and Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the delays. Bakkt’s difficulties were recently detailed in The Wall Street Journal.For most traditional investments, like stocks or bonds, there are clearly established methods for securing customer accounts. But the design of Bitcoin means that if a Bitcoin is stolen from a Bitcoin wallet, where the digital tokens are stored, it is hard to get back.This has already been a big problem for many Bitcoin exchanges that have suffered crippling thefts and losses.“There is a lot of new ground being covered, and the regulators’ job is to be satisfied, not just to be fast,” said Thomas Chippas, the chief executive of another exchange hoping to cater to big investors, ErisX, which has also been held up by the regulators.Even if the authorities are able to get comfortable with the security arrangements at Bitcoin exchanges, there is the question of what application Bitcoin and other digital tokens might have outside of speculation.Many Bitcoin enthusiasts have argued that the original cryptocurrency is useful as a place to store value outside the control of any government or institution, as if it were a digital version of gold. But that narrative has been tested as the value of Bitcoin has bounced around. And other applications for Bitcoin, like using it to pay for things online, have not taken off.“I think it will be years and years before it will be ready for nonspeculative use cases,” Mr. Murray said. “Until now, it’s just been people buying it and hoping it’s going to go up. I think that’s not going to end for three or four years.”NEW YORK — In a story April 15, The Associated Press reported that Adidas sold off its golf business. The story should have clarified that the business Adidas sold off was a golf club maker, and that Adidas still offers golf apparel, footwear and accessories.NEW YORK — With U.S. stocks a stone's throw away from hitting a record high, Wall Street's so-called "fear gauge" slipped to a fresh six-month low on Friday, in a sign investors expect the good times to keep rolling.The S&P 500 crossed the 2,900 mark for the first time since early October on Friday, boosted by a jump in Walt Disney shares and as bank stocks surged after strong results from JPMorgan Chase & Co.The stock index's recent gains spell a striking reversal in fortunes for investors, who just a few months ago had been staring at the demise of the longest bull market for stocks.Stocks tumbled hard late last year, as investors fretted over mounting concerns about global growth, waning corporate profits, U.S.-China trade tensions and the Fed's path on rate hikes.But you wouldn't know that looking at the Cboe Volatility Index today. On Friday the VIX - a widely followed options-based barometer of expected near-term volatility for stocks - slipped as low as 12.11, its lowest since October 5.That was shortly after the S&P logged its highest ever close at 2,929.67 on Sept 21, and marked the beginning of what became a near 20% correction to a low near 2,351 on Christmas Eve that saw the VIX spike above 36.Investors' forecast for low volatility is in line with how stocks have been moving of late. One-month historical volatility for the S&P 500 index - a measure of daily gyrations - is close to the lowest it has been since October. Some Wall Street analysts say stocks have room to run.Equity exposure for volatility targeting portfolios and hedge funds are low and retail investors have yet to return to U.S. equity funds after record outflows in December, JPMorgan analysts Bram Kaplan and Shawn Quigg said in a note on Friday. "Despite the fact that the market is closing in on record highs, systematic and macro investors have a long way to go in terms of re-levering their portfolios," the analysts said.The return of these types of investors to stocks can continue for the next couple of months and support the market, they said.Despite the stock market turmoil late last year, traders are discounting volatility, citing historical trade patterns."Once a cyclical correction within a secular bull market is over, the next rally tends to be strong," said technical analysts at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research said in a note on Thursday.The amount of time for the S&P 500 to regain the high from the start of the cyclical correction within a secular bull market averages 15.4 months, according to BofA Merrill Lynch data."If 2351 from 12/24 proves to be the correction low on the S&P 500, this suggests that the S&P 500 could achieve a new high in January 2020 given the start of the correction in September," the BofA analysts said. (Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; Editing by Alden Bentley and Chizu Nomiyama)(Reuters) - European shares ended higher on Monday with telecom and retail stocks leading gains as Sino-U.S. trade optimism and strong Chinese economic data eased some worries over global growth - though lacklustre earnings from big U.S. banks weighed. The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose for the fourth straight session, hovering near eight-month highs with most indices in the region gaining, apart from Britain's FTSE 100 which lost ground as miners and oil majors fell.Markets cheered the progress in trade talks after U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Saturday he hoped that the United States and China were close to the final round of negotiations. Reuters reported that U.S. negotiators had tempered demands that China curb industrial subsidies as a condition for a deal after strong resistance from Beijing."Growth worries will continue to be shrugged off as long as trade talks go well and central banks continue to support monetary policy," said David Madden, an analyst at CMC Markets, London.Investors are bracing for earnings to come later in the week and will also be scrutinizing data - including Germany’s ZEW survey and Chinese gross domestic product due on Wednesday. Bank stocks, which led gains earlier in the day on last week's earnings beat from JP Morgan, slipped after lacklustre results from Goldman Sachs and Citigroup."We do see a bit of pressure on Eurozone banks because of those earnings," said Madden.Shares in Danish healthcare company Ambu rose more than 7 percent, making it the biggest gainer on the STOXX 600, after the U.S. FDA said products produced by some of its rivals had higher than expected levels of contamination. French media conglomerate Vivendi closed at a more than 11-year high after it posted higher first-quarter revenue and said it was forging ahead with the planned sale of up to 50 percent of its UMG music arm. Shares of Norwegian metals maker Norsk Hydro rose to more than two-month highs after the company won further support for its bid to resume full output from its Alunorte alumina refinery in Brazil.Italian media group Mediaset and its German rival ProSiebenSat.1 Media rose on merger speculation, even though both companies denied they were in talks. The biggest drag on the STOXX were basic resources stocks with London-listed shares of Rio Tinto falling more than 1 percent. The mining company is due to release its production data for the March quarter later in the week.Finland's Nokia weighed on the Helsinki and the euro zone blue chips index after Goldman Sachs downgraded the stock to "sell". Nestle, trading without entitlement to its latest dividend pay-out, dragged down the food & beverages index. Compass Group was among the biggest weights on London's blue-chip index after Barclays downgraded shares of the world's largest caterer to "equal-weight". (Reporting by Medha Singh,Susan Mathew and Agamoni Ghosh in Bengaluru; Editing by Alison Williams and Andrew Heavens)PARIS — EDF shares rose as much as 4.3 percent on Monday on hopes that a partial re-nationalization of the French utility will unlock value and ring-fence EDF's capital-intensive nuclear activities from its renewables and grids. The strategy committee of EDF's board will review a restructuring plan for the 83.7 percent state-owned group on May 28, French daily Le Parisien reported, adding that this would be followed by presentations to a group of 200 top managers on June 7 and to union representatives on June 20.A source familiar with the situation confirmed these dates.EDF declined to comment. The French government has for some time been looking at how to restructure EDF to isolate its volatile nuclear business from the pressures of a stock market listing and provide a boost to the rest of the company. It wants to return EDF's nuclear operations to the public sector but does not necessarily want to buy out minority shareholders in EDF's other business activities.EDF operates 58 nuclear reactors which produce about 75 percent of France's electricity. But the company has been hit by safety outages at dozens of its nuclear plants and has faced billions of euros of cost overruns on a nuclear construction project.The company also requires massive investment of some 55 billion of euros to upgrade its aging nuclear plants. The paper said the plan - codenamed Project Hercules - would be likely to involve the creation of a new holding company owning EDF's nuclear activities and wholesale power sales, and possibly also its hydropower plants.This would allow EDF to ring-fence the financial risks associated with nuclear energy from financial markets.The French government said in November it would consider increasing the state's stake in EDF and possibly create a new parent company with subsidiaries. It was not immediately clear whether EDF's reactor building business Framatome, formerly called Areva, and its nuclear reactors in Britain would also be held in a separate nuclear division. The paper said the new parent company may not be wholly state-owned, because of the high cost of renationalizing it. EDF has a market value of 41 billion euros ($46 billion), but trades on a price/book ratio of just 0.82, making it the most undervalued share in the Stoxx European Utilities index by that measure. The paper quoted an unnamed source as saying that the state would hesitate to buy out minority shareholders, as it would cost "a fortune", or about 6 to 8 billion euros for 15 percent.Jefferies wrote in a note that this estimate implied a 12.5-16.6 euro per share buyout price and that the midpoint of this range implied a 20 percent premium to the current share price.UBS analyst Sam Arie said he expects that a restructuring of EDF will create two balance sheets, with potentially an IPO of a 'NewCo' similar to the IPO of innogy from within Germany's RWE."If there is a renationalization of EDF Group, including the nuclear fleet, we expect that would come at a premium for EDF’s minorities," he said.The paper said the new parent company would also hold a majority stake in a second holding company which would own some other EDF subsidiaries such as retail power sales, grid units RTE and Enedis. Enedis may partially open its capital to private investors, it said.EDF chief executive Jean-Bernard Levy said in February the government had asked him to make restructuring proposals by the end of 2019.Le Parisien said financial institutions including Société Générale, JP Morgan, UBS, Oddo and Natixis were working on several restructuring scenarios,  (Reporting by Geert De Clercq; editing by Richard Lough and Jane Merriman)RatesA standard room with a queen bed starts at $195.The BasicsAt this year’s Oscar ceremony, the “Green Book” director, Peter Farrelly, gave a shout out to the luxury fashion brand Shinola, crediting it with “saving Detroit.” While his claim remains controversial, one fact is inarguable: With the opening of its first hotel in January, Shinola is bigger than ever in Motor City.Located on Woodward Avenue, the main thoroughfare in Detroit, Shinola Hotel takes up most of a city block. It occupies five buildings, including two historic structures: the Singer Building, with its neoclassical exterior, and the T.B. Rayl & Co. store, a former sports and hardware business with a red-tiled facade. It also has a street-front restaurant, San Morello, and a retail outlet, with back entrances into the hotel.The 129-room, eight-story boutique hotel is part of a multimillion-dollar development project by Shinola, founded by Tom Kartsotis of Fossil watches, and Dan Gilbert’s real estate venture, Bedrock, which has acquired and developed more than 100 properties in the city since 2011. The project, which took two years to complete, also includes an alley behind the hotel with shops and two restaurants: The Brakeman, an American beer hall with an outdoor area, and Penny Red’s, a fried chicken spot. Check-in went smoothly for us as well as a cool couple with a canine. Shinola is a pet-friendly hotel.The LocationDetroit’s downtown district is the most pedestrian-friendly area of the city, and a testament to the “revitalization” everyone touts following the bankruptcy. Not only can hotel guests stroll to all the major sports venues — Comerica Park, Ford Field and Little Caesars arena — it is also an Uber-free distance from the Fox Theatre, the Detroit Opera House, and even the Fisher Theatre, courtesy of the two-year old QLINE, a streetcar that runs up and down Woodward connecting the downtown to New Center, a commercial and residential district few miles away. (The “Q” stands for Quicken Loans, Dan Gilbert’s mortgage company.) Also just steps from the hotel is the native Detroiter John Varvatos’s store.The RoomOur sixth-floor room felt spacious with a comfortable leather chair adorned with a blanket and reading light, a king bed and a bar stocked with enough booze for a block party: bottles of gin, vodka, tequila and bourbon were laid out on top of a credenza hiding a fully stocked minibar underneath. The snacks and beverages include nods to local brands: Great Lakes Chips, Drought cold-pressed juice, Vernors Ginger Ale and Shinola Cola (who knew?). One serious highlight: a set of Bluetooth Shinola speakers we had to restrain ourselves from volume testing. Somewhat fascinating is a long price list of nearly everything in the room should we want to buy it or be charged if it went missing: the blanket ($295), the speakers ($1,500), the Runwell desk clock ($295) a dual-plug power cord ($145), and a key fob with a leather tassel I did not dare lose at $65. I was tempted to buy the black terry-cloth robes ($150 each) and take home the mysteriously unpriced striped cotton slippers. Our room overlooked the site of the former J.L. Hudson’s department store, where Mr. Gilbert is starting to build what is to be the tallest skyscraper in Detroit, a mixed-use tower. There was no construction noise on the weekend.The BathroomNicely designed with an enormous shower that could easily fit two people. The bath amenities, labeled Rayl’s after the former tenant, were made for the hotel with Shinola’s “signature scent,” which was unrecognizable but fragrant.DiningWith the San Morello restaurant booked that night, we enjoyed brunch in the bustling corner brasserie, sharing a delicious pizza with fennel sausage and pistachio pesto ($19). Had we known the “Living Room” off the lobby served food, we might have eaten there. The high-ceilinged room is decorated with colorful local art and filled with comfortable couches. The menu is simple (soups, salads, roast chicken), though the homemade Truffle Dog ($17) stood out, as did the cocktail menu featuring drinks like “Death in the Afternoon,” absinthe and Champagne ($24). After 5 p.m. it is open to the public, as is the “Evening Bar,” a windowless, cozy room with curved wood millwork and warm lighting. But it has seating for only 30 people, and takes no reservations, and we were not up for the hourlong wait at 11 p.m. Room service the next morning made up for any disappointment. Within 30 minutes of ordering, a huge plate of fluffy lemon ricotta pancakes ($14) arrived with the Sunday paper.AmenitiesThe 24-hour gym features state-of-the art Technogym equipment and Peloton bikes. They even have leather Shinola weight balls.The Bottom LineIf you like the Shinola brand you will love the hotel. Like the watches, it feels casually elegant. And the cost feels very reasonable for the experience, particularly if you tally the price of all the products in the room. And regardless of whether they are saving Detroit, they are certainly giving a lot of love to the city as well as local and state merchants. Even the bed mattresses are made in Michigan.Shinola Hotel, 1400 Woodward Avenue; 313-356-1400; www.shinolahotel.comFollow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world. TOKYO — Asian stocks hovered below a nine-month high on Tuesday after disappointing bank earnings dented Wall Street, though recent signs that the global economy is likely to avoid a sharper downturn helped limit the losses.MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed by mid-morning.The index had risen to its highest level since July 2018 the previous day after strong export and banking data from China last week eased investors' concerns about the health of the world's second-largest economy.Expectations that Chinese and U.S. trade negotiators would strike a deal soon also lifted market confidence.The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.1 percent. South Korea's KOSPI fell 0.1 percent, Australian stocks added 0.5 percent.Japan's Nikkei edged up 0.2 percent."The equity markets are facing some headwinds after their recent large gains," said Masahiro Ichikawa, senior strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management."That said, market sentiment is still relatively well supported as recent Chinese indicators proved to be strong and prompted the markets to readjust their views on the global economy."The U.S.-China trade dispute, signs of slowing global corporate earnings and business investment have all put pressure on riskier assets in the past year, so investors have been quick to lap up positive news. Wall Street lost ground on Monday, dragged down as underwhelming bank earnings curbed investor enthusiasm. But while all three major U.S. stock indexes edged lower, the S&P 500 remained within a percent of its record high. [.N]Safe havens such as bonds, which were on the defensive following the recent improvement in investor risk appetite, were given some reprieve.The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield was at 2.550 percent, edging back from a four-week high of 2.574 percent reached on Monday.Spot gold was a shade lower at $1,286.21 an ounce and headed for its fourth straight days of losses. [GOL/]Elsewhere in commodities, the recent rally in crude oil prices halted on the prospect of Russia and OPEC boosting production to fight for market share with the United States. [O/R]U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down 0.15 percent at $63.30 per barrel after losing nearly 0.8 percent the previous day.U.S. crude had scaled a five-month high of $64.79 earlier this month.Oil had rallied on tightening global supplies, as output has fallen in Iran and Venezuela amid signs the United States will further toughen sanctions on those two OPEC producers, and on the threat that renewed fighting could stop production in Libya.The dollar, which tends to underperform when risk appetite increases, was steady at 96.980 against a basket of six major currencies, extending overnight losses.Many investors are waiting on Chinese gross domestic product (GDP) data due on Wednesday for clues on the health of Asia's giant economy, a major pressure point for global growth over the past year.A Reuters poll forecast China's first-quarter growth to have cooled to 6.3 percent on-year, the weakest pace in at least 27 years, but a flurry of measures to boost domestic demand may have put a floor under slowing activity in March."The outlook for Asia critically hinges on the outlook of China's growth and the ongoing U.S.-China trade talks. On both fronts, policymakers and investors believe that the outcome of these two issues is turning more positive," wrote strategists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.The euro dipped 0.05 percent to $1.1297 and the dollar shed 0.1 percent to 111.94 yen .The Australian dollar fell 0.4 percent to $0.7146 after minutes from a policy meeting this month showed that the country's central bank thought a cut in interest rates would be "appropriate" should inflation stay low and unemployment trend higher.  (Editing by Shri Navaratnam & Kim Coghill)Endangered SpacesSuperheroes Couldn’t Save a Comic Book Clubhouse in Lower ManhattanLoved by Wall Streeters and scruffy comic book junkies alike, Chameleon Comics was a clubhouse in the Financial District.By Corey KilgannonApril 14, 2019Jason Winn burst into Chameleon Comics & Cards looking like Superman stumbling upon kryptonite.“What is going on?” Mr. Winn said to the regulars in the shop who had already read the handwritten sign outside.Their glum faces told the story: Chameleon was shutting its doors after nearly 30 years in Manhattan’s Financial District.“This shop was like home to me,” said Mr. Winn, a paralegal, who works nearby and had grown used to his steady fix of Chameleon’s eclectic selection of comic books, graphic novels, baseball cards and action figures. “These kind of comic shops are shutting down left and right.”Beyond the shop’s merchandise, the scene was what really attracted a steady cadre of regulars, from scruffy comic junkies in search of bargains to well-dressed Wall Streeters looking to drop serious money on the store’s impressive selection of collectible baseball cards.They all shared a common despondency during the shop’s last week before it closed on March 31. And they came together one last time to lament the demise of their favorite gathering spot, a place where you could land bargains while discussing the latest releases with like-minded collectors.“At this shop, they always had a personal relationship with the customers. They always worked with me and gave me a deal. You can’t get that kind of service at a corporate store.”— Jason Winn, 38The store’s owner, Steve Wu, 50, said business had been declining for years and that he could no longer afford to stay open now that his lease was ending and his landlord was raising the rent significantly.Mr. Wu would not disclose the exact amount, but said the increase would put his rent well over $10,000 per month for the 500-square-foot shop on Maiden Lane just east of Broadway.Business, he said, never quite rebounded after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack occurred several blocks away. Also, he added, younger people do not seem to collect comics like older generations did.The shop is one of many small service-style businesses that caters to the work force that fills the area on weekdays. Inside, it was hardly a charming space — sparsely decorated with worn beige tiles underfoot and large fluorescent lights overhead, along with a large inflatable Spiderman doll hanging from the ceiling.But the drab décor only seemed to make the colorful comic books and graphic novels pop out even more from their display cases, which had small signs issuing edicts such as “No Reading” and “This Is Not a Library.”In the store’s last days, shoppers sought to take advantage of the store’s everything-must-go sale.A stack of Superboy comics from the late 1960s were being sold for $10 apiece. In the baseball card cases, a Carl Yastrzemski rookie card from 1960 cost $125, but one of him from 1972 went for $3.“These kind of stores are what make New York great,” said one customer, Wayne Manos, 66, a Marvel and DC Comics lover and a Topps baseball card aficionado who began frequenting the store while working at the now defunct American Stock Exchange. “We became part of the community — a lot of people came here just to hang out and get away from work,” said Mr. Wu, as he hugged some of his customers. “But with a store like this, the profit margin is very low. It’s not like a Chanel store where you can make a few sales a day.”He tried looking for other retail space in downtown Manhattan, he said, “but the rents are just too crazy.”Illustrations by Julia WertzThe Federal Reserve gave Wall Street just about everything it wanted, helping to make the first three months of 2019 a great time to be in stocks and bonds.Yet Fed policy may be partly responsible for problems in the markets, too, raising the prospect of a reversal later this year.For the quarter, the average domestic stock fund tracked by Morningstar gained 13.5 percent, led by specialists in technology, energy and consumer issues. Bond funds were up 3.8 percent, and international stocks rose 11.1 percent, with funds that focus on China and other emerging markets doing best.But some market strategists worry that the Fed has been trying too hard to please investors.“Central banks feel pressure to act when they should do nothing,” said Luca Paolini, chief strategist at Pictet Asset Management. “That’s a terrible message: ‘Don’t worry because we’ll be there for you.’”The Fed abruptly signaled, just as 2019 began, that it was shifting to an easier monetary policy when there were unmistakable signs that economic growth was flagging. The Fed’s benign message sent stocks to the best January in more than 30 years after the worst December in nearly a century.But when the central bank reiterated its relaxed posture last month, promising not to raise interest rates this year, the reaction in the stock market was less enthusiastic, and bond yields sank, a sign of concern about economic prospects.Traders who keep faith with the Fed may feel vindicated by its decision to move in a dovish direction and no doubt will continue to support share prices.But the Fed has come under pressure from President Trump to be more dovish still. And some investment advisers detect a whiff of desperation in the Fed’s efforts to keep the economic recovery and bull market going into their second decade. They question how long either can continue before a painful reckoning.“They screwed up badly by making us worry they’re out of bullets,” said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group. “You don’t say you’re going to guarantee no rate hikes until 2020. What are they so scared about all of a sudden?”The short answer: a recession.By one important measure, the economy is doing nicely; the unemployment rate was 3.8 percent in March, close to a 50-year low. But that tends to be a lagging indicator, as employers are reluctant to let workers go until they have no choice. Much other data, related to factors as diverse as housing, borrowing, consumer confidence and manufacturing, hints that the decade-long economic expansion may be in jeopardy.The stock market was happy to put its faith in the Fed’s renewed commitment to buoy the economy through most of the first quarter; even after losing a bit of ground in the final week or so, the S&P 500 rose 13.1 percent. But bond traders seem unconvinced.The yield on 10-year Treasury issues sank from about 3.2 percent in October to 2.44 percent on March 22, less than the 2.45 percent rate on three-month Treasury bills. That condition, an inverted yield curve, didn’t last long. The 10-year rate on Thursday was 2.5 percent; the three-month rate, 2.36 percent. But the brief inversion suggested that investors were anticipating slow growth for a long time, dovish Fed or not.Although the extent of the Fed’s ability to influence the markets is open to debate — the changes it makes to the interest rates it sets tend to follow changes in market rates — Komal Sri-Kumar, president of Sri-Kumar Global Strategies, said the Fed could support the stock market if other factors, such as valuations, cooperated.“If it’s very overvalued and the Fed cuts rates to help, it’s not going to prevent a correction,” he said.Mr. Sri-Kumar expects the Fed to reduce interest rates in June and September. Valuations are reasonable enough, in his opinion, that “the Fed has a chance” of propping up stocks, but if it continues to cut after that or begin a new round of asset purchases, even with stocks doing well, it may prove counterproductive.“The Fed is going to help the stock market for some time, but by the end of 2019, it will run out of options,” he said. “If valuations are much higher than today and the Fed says it’s going to keep the rally going, then people will say, ‘The Fed probably knows something about the economy, so I’ll sell.’”What everyone seems to believe about the economy is that it’s on less stable footing than last year.The Baltic Dry Index, which measures the cost of carrying bulk goods by ship, plunged more than 30 percent in nine months, to a three-year low. Defaults on loans to American farmers recently hit a nine-year high, and a record number of car loans are 90 days past due.The economic picture abroad is worrisome, too. Growth in China has subsided as frosty trade relations with the United States linger. As uncertainties remained over exactly how Britain would detach itself from the European Union, the Bank of England last month reported reductions in growth in construction and retail sales, and a decline in manufacturing output. German industrial orders just recorded their biggest year-on-year drop since 2009, raising recession fears there.The slowing growth is filtering through to corporate earnings. The companies in the S&P 500 are estimated to have made 4.1 percent less in the first quarter than in the first quarter of 2018, according to FactSet Research. The firm foresees a modest pickup for the full year to 3.6 percent growth.For many market professionals, it’s a question of when, not if, the economic and earnings backdrops become too feeble and stocks suffer another fall.Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citi Research, says the clock is ticking.“If the Fed’s not going to raise rates tomorrow, that’s fine,” he said, “but there’s a sense that this is the end of the cycle.”The Fed’s about-face “was a very powerful buy signal” and a “major reset of expectations,” Mr. Levkovich said, but manufacturing has looked weak for several months, based on orders for durable goods, surveys of purchasing managers and German exports to China.Another concern is surveys indicating more rigorous standards on commercial and industrial loans, which “tightened up sharply in the fourth quarter,” he said. Changes in lending standards tend to be felt in the economy about nine months later, he noted, so “late in the third quarter or in the fourth, we’re likely to see some softening up of economic data and earnings.”Mr. Levkovich expects the S&P 500 to end the year at 2,850, near where it is now, and it could reach 2,950 before easing. Until then, economically sensitive areas that weakened as growth slowed, such as energy, semiconductors and capital goods, could outperform, he said, and if you’re looking for something safer as a hedge, try big pharmaceutical companies.Ian Mortimer, co-manager of the Guinness Atkinson Global Innovators fund, also likes semiconductors, one of several technology niches that he expects to grow even in an iffy economy, including payments and e-commerce. These tech segments can capitalize on the expansion of data centers and the development of artificial intelligence and the internet of things, or the use of internet connections to enhance the use of everyday, real-world objects.“These secular-growth themes continue to grow regardless of what the market is doing,” he said. By contrast, “older industries are feeling pressures.”Mr. Paolini at Pictet called the first-quarter rally “an overreaction to an overreaction” and warned that “the next big move is going to be down, not up.” But while he sees “lots of headwinds” preventing the market from rising in the short term, he added, “I don’t see a clear catalyst for a significant decline.”He finds more opportunities overseas. American defensive stocks may be expensive, for instance, but a higher proportion of British stocks are in defensive sectors, and they are much cheaper, he said. When signs of a recovery in global growth appear, he would put more money into Continental Europe, where economically sensitive stocks are reasonably priced, and Japan.Mr. Paulsen expressed concern about the yield curve, but he saw few other harbingers of recession. Household debt is well behaved, and the leading indicators index, a basket of economic measures that tend to move ahead of changes in economic growth, is at a record high.The sharp decline in bond yields and the correction last year have taken the backdrop for stocks “from hostile to hospitable,” he said. He also noted that sentiment is “so bearish and cautious,” which often occurs closer to bottoms in stocks than tops.He’s not bearish, but he is cautious. Whatever an investor’s neutral allocation to stocks would be, he recommends committing slightly more, particularly in foreign markets and in economically sensitive niches like energy, basic materials and industrials.As important a signal as the inverted yield curve may be, Mr. Paulsen suggested that it might be sending a false signal because it has occurred under the unorthodox practices and unique conditions engineered by the Fed after the financial crisis a decade ago. He wouldn’t bet much on the economic expansion or the bull market persisting, but he wouldn’t bet much against it, either.“I like the odds that we’re overestimating risks, but that’s not to say it’s not the start of 2008 again,” he said. “Everything about the Fed has been weird in this cycle. If this has the weirdest ending, it shouldn’t shock us, but that doesn’t necessarily mean a bear market. What if we had another five years of recovery? There are a lot of different weird ways this could go.”Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Uber pulls back the curtain — and raises red flagsUber published the prospectus yesterday for its long-awaited I.P.O., revealing the full scale of its ride-hailing empire — and potential warning signs for what is expected to be the biggest market debut in years.The main revelations:• $1.8 billion in losses last year, excluding gains from selling parts of its businesses in Southeast Asia and Russia.• $11.3 billion in overall revenue.• 91 million monthly users, including services like food delivery and shared scooter and bike rentals.• Its biggest shareholders include SoftBank of Japan and its co-founder and former C.E.O., Travis Kalanick.Growth is slowing. In 2018, revenue rose 42 percent from a year earlier. It had doubled the year before. And revenue from ride-hailing, its biggest business,  was roughly flat for the last six months of 2018. Growth in monthly users also appears to be slowing.That could be a concern for investors who had hoped Uber would maintain a meteoric growth rate. A potential $100 billion valuation may be lower than expectations, but Lex points out that it’s still a rich number.More: How Uber stacks up against Lyft. What Uber’s metrics like “core platform contribution margin” actually mean. And Uber executives stand to make huge bonuses from a big I.P.O. — its drivers, not so much.Chevron plans to buy Anadarko for $33 billionChevron said this morning that it planned to acquire Anadarko, the oil and gas producer, in what would be one of the biggest deals in the industry in years.• Under the terms of the deal, Chevron would pay $65 a share in stock and cash. That is 39 percent above where Anadarko’s stock closed yesterday.• Including Anadarko’s debt, the transaction is valued at $50 billion.• Anadarko would give Chevron a huge presence in the Permian Basin in West Texas, one of the most valuable oil-producing areas in the U.S. It would also strengthen Chevron’s liquid natural gas reserves.If completed, the deal would be Chevron’s biggest since its $36 billion takeover of Texaco, which closed in 2001.The deal comes as oil prices have risen over the past six weeks after a reduction in supply by OPEC members. Futures for West Texas Intermediate crude reached $64.19 per barrel this morning, up 61 cents from their last closing price, according to Reuters.Amazon’s growth is slowingIn Amazon’s annual letter to its shareholders, Jeff Bezos shared insights about the financial performance of his e-commerce behemoth.“Third-party sellers are kicking our first-party butt. Badly,” Mr. Bezos wrote. Third-party sales on Amazon increased to $160 billion in 2018 from $100 million in 1999 — a compound annual growth rate of 52 percent. Amazon’s first-party sales rose to $117 billion from $1.6 billion in the same period, a growth rate of 25 percent.Growth in Amazon’s total merchandise sales is slowing, according to calculations by Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion. She writes that the company sold $300 billion worth of merchandise in 2018, up 19 percent from the previous year. But annual increases for that metric were 24 percent for 2017 and 27 percent for 2016.“It’s unfair to expect Amazon to grow like a start-up forever. But it’s not insignificant that this slowdown has come even as Amazon has attempted to flex more muscle in newer categories,” Ms. Ovide writes. “It doesn’t seem like a coincidence that this comes as its legacy retail competitors finally seem to have awakened and adapted to the e-commerce era.”More: Mr. Bezos also dared retail rivals to raise their minimum wages. A Walmart executive shot back by asking Amazon to pay taxes.Herman Cain’s chances for Fed seat fadeFour Republican senators said that they would not back Mr. Cain should President Trump nominate him as a Fed governor. That’s probably enough opposition to stop him from joining the central bank.“If I had to vote today, I would vote no,” Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota said yesterday, joining Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Cory Gardner of Colorado in opposing Mr. Cain. They appear to have concerns about his qualifications and partisanship.Because Republicans hold only 53 Senate seats, a confirmation would require support from Democrats. That seems unlikely, given Mr. Cain’s frequent attacks on opposition lawmakers.It’s unclear whether Mr. Trump’s other pick for the Fed, the economics commentator Stephen Moore, will fare better. Mr. Moore has been embarrassed by revelations of tax problems, but Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports that he may win wider support from Senate Republicans.Mr. Trump’s efforts to politicize the Fed continue to outrage commentators. The Economist is worried that “the Fed will become a political weapon, and that America will move closer to becoming a nation where the welfare of the ruling party trumps that of the country as a whole.”China offers to open up its cloud-computing marketAs part of trade negotiations with America, China has offered new concessions on access in the cloud-computing sector for U.S. tech companies, the WSJ reports.• China is “proposing to issue more licenses that businesses need to operate data centers and to lift the 50 percent equity cap that limits ownership for certain foreign cloud-service providers,” according to unidentified sources.• “Amazon, Microsoft, Apple and others have invested millions of dollars or more to provide cloud services in China, but are hampered by regulations. Better access would potentially allow them to enlarge their presence.”• “Questions still remain over the details of the latest Chinese proposal, the people said, such as how quickly the equity caps would be removed, and whether the removal would be confined to certain geographical areas, such as a free-trade zone.”Both Washington and Beijing are offering a final round of concessions, hoping they will lead to an agreement. President Trump said last week that he expected to reach a deal within the next four weeks.Ron Burkle may buy The National EnquirerThe owner of The National Enquirer may have found a potential buyer: Ron Burkle, the supermarket mogul, the NYT reports.Mr. Burkle is known for buying distressed companies, having made his fortune through buying and merging supermarket chains like Ralphs and Jurgensen’s. He’s also known for hobnobbing with celebrities like Leonardo DiCaprio and Madonna.He’s also a big donor to the Democratic Party, and was close to President Bill Clinton. That would make his owning The Enquirer, the tabloid favored by Mr. Trump, unusual. (He is also friends with Mr. Trump.)But leaks of the Enquirer talks may scuttle a deal. After the NYT reported on the discussions, a spokesman for Mr. Burkle’s private equity firm said that the investor wasn’t in talks to buy the publication. The NYT reports that Mr. Burkle’s team felt “used” by American Media Inc., the tabloid’s current owner.Julian Assange faces extradition to the U.S.The WikiLeaks founder was arrested yesterday in London to face a charge in the U.S. of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, the NYT reports.• “The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest.”• “At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant.”• “Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.”The events brought to a head issues about press freedom. Mr. Assange’s work with WikiLeaks — obtaining and publishing information that officials would prefer be kept secret — are hard to legally distinguish from journalism. Some fear that journalists could be treated in a similar way.Mr. Assange was indicted on a charge of hacking, not publishing secrets. But people who are worried about press freedom shouldn’t necessarily rest easy, Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.More: President Trump once claimed to “love WikiLeaks.” Yesterday, he said: “I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It’s not my thing.”What people are making of the Brexit delayThe dust has settled on the agreement to delay Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. for at least six months. But reactions to the situation have been mixed.Business are unhappy. For many larger companies, Brexit has already happened. But “businesses of all sizes are still pleading for Parliament to give them clarity before the economy slows,” Amie Tsang of the NYT writes.Economists are pleased. The I.M.F.’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, said that the new Brexit date meant that Britain would avoid — for now — the “terrible outcome” of a no-deal departure. The Bank of England governor, Mark Carney, said the delay would make a no-deal exit less disruptive.And Prime Minister Theresa May is pushing on. She has “renewed her effort to push through her Brexit deal with the aid of the opposition Labour Party, in a desperate bid to avoid holding European parliamentary elections in a month’s time,” according to the FT.Revolving doorBob Iger said yesterday that he would retire as Walt Disney’s C.E.O. in 2021.Jamie Forese, the head of Citigroup’s investment bank and a potential successor to Mike Corbat as C.E.O., is stepping down.Google’s chief diversity officer, Danielle Brown, is leaving to become the human resources chief at Gusto.Maryanne Trump Barry, a federal appellate judge in Philadelphia and the sister of President Trump, has retired amid a civil misconduct investigation.Blackstone has appointed Kelly Ayotte, a former Republican senator for New Hampshire, to its board.The speed readDeals• J. Crew may spin off its popular Madewell brand to raise much-needed capital. (NYT)• Jay Alix, the corporate restructuring veteran, is leading a fight against what he says is McKinsey & Company’s control of the U.S. bankruptcy system. (NYT)• A bidder for Disney’s sports networks has accused Charter Communications of trying to subvert the auction process. (WSJ)• Goldman Sachs is trying to revive its once-dominant trading division by offering clients technology and new services like cash management. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a 7 percent tax on corporate profits above $100 million, which would raise an estimated $1 trillion over the next decade. (Bloomberg)• The Senate confirmed David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, as the interior department secretary, despite Democratic lawmakers’ concerns. (NYT)• A third of economists think even a small increase in the federal minimum wage would lead to job losses, according to a survey. (WSJ)• A grand jury indicted Gregory Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, over his work for Ukraine. (NYT)Boeing• Families planning to sue Boeing in the U.S. over fatal crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia must first prove their lawsuits belong in America. (WSJ)• The C.E.O., Dennis Muilenberg, said that fixes planned for the 737 Max jets would make them “even safer.” (WSJ)• Before the Ethiopian Airlines crash, Boeing had said that the 737 Max 8 was “not suitable” for some airports. (Bloomberg)Tech• Disney introduced its streaming service, Disney Plus. Featuring original content from Marvel and all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons,” it will cost $7 a month, undercutting Netflix. (NYT)• SpaceX launched the Falcon Heavy — the most powerful rocket in operation — for the second time. It also successfully landed all three of its boosters for the first time. Related: What’s next for the space race. (NYT, WSJ)• Tesla reshuffled the vehicle lineup on its online ordering system, making it harder to buy its cheapest vehicle. Also: Tesla and Panasonic have tempered expansion plans for their huge battery factory. (Bloomberg)• What’s Big Tech’s relationship with the climate? It’s complicated. (Axios)Best of the rest• Economists said that they see the Fed holding rates steady at least through 2021, according to a survey. (WSJ)• The new World Bank president, David Malpass, says there is too much debt in the world. (CNBC)• A defense lawyer for Carlos Ghosn says that detention is worsening his kidney condition. (WSJ)• Sales reps for Purdue Pharma visited New York State doctors a half-million times between 2006 and 2017 to promote OxyContin, according to newly filed court documents. (NYT)• Michael Avenatti, already facing fraud and extortion charges, has also been accused of stealing from clients and of lying repeatedly about his income. (NYT)• “Game of Thrones” returns on Sunday. Here’s how it changed television. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Last week the doors of the John Barrett Salon — the high-end, full-service beauty destination that has occupied the penthouse floor of Bergdorf Goodman for more than two decades — closed for the last time. To some, it was the end of an era for a particular breed of New York women, famously christened Bergdorf Blondes in the Plum Sykes 2004 novel of the same name. The title was a nod to the tribe’s preferred hair color as well as to their favorite hangout, Mr. Barrett’s salon, where the champagne, gossip — and high jinks — flowed as easily as the shampoo and conditioner. “It was a bit of a scene,” said Ms. Sykes, who now lives in Britain. On any given day, salon-goers might spot Martha Stewart, Hillary Clinton or Liza Minnelli, who were all regulars. Stellene Volandes, the editor in chief of Town & Country, said she once watched Liza Minnelli sing “Happy Birthday” to Mr. Barrett. “It somehow felt like home and like a really great cocktail party,” Ms. Volandes said. “You never knew who was going to be in the chair next to you.”Making sure the wrong people didn’t end up in the next chair was a normal, and crucial, part of salon business. Image"Bergdorf Blondes," the 2004 novel by Plum Sykes.CreditMiramax Books, via Associated Press“There’s always the situation where you have to keep the first and the second wife from seeing each other,” said Mr. Barrett, who also recalled the day when he had to separate two best friends who were fighting and another day when he had to make sure Mrs. Clinton and Andrea Mitchell of NBC News didn’t cross paths.“We tended to wall off Secretary Clinton,” said Mr. Barrett, who explained that although he didn’t have a private room — “all the wrong people want to be in it,” he said — he did have room-dividing screens that his staff could put up for extra privacy. His staff also knew not to book certain clients at the same time and they kept others at opposite ends of the space.“I have a woman at the front of the salon who is basically like a maître d’,” Mr. Barrett said. “She knows who’s who.” And that’s the tame stuff. There was the well-dressed client who would come in two to three times a week for a blowout ($85 and up) and then run out of the salon without paying. One day Bergdorf security stopped her. Instead of having her arrested, Mr. Barrett came up with a simple solution: Put her credit card on file. “I thought she would be too embarrassed to come back, but she was back the next day,” he said. Jennifer Costa, a senior colorist with the salon, was once called out to the Mercer Hotel to color the hair of a celebrity. Ms. Costa found herself alone with the woman, whom she described as “not being in her right mind,” not to mention totally unclothed. They ended up working on the bed, where Ms. Costa struggled to do the color and highlights. “She couldn’t sit still,” Ms. Costa said. “I had hair color all over.” When the celebrity requested that she join her in the shower so she could rinse out the color, Ms. Costa drew the line. “The color was fine,” she said. “I was a wreck.” Presumably the juicy tales will continue to pile up at Mr. Barrett’s new salon on the mezzanine floor of the tower at 432 Park Avenue. The space will house a library filled with books available for purchase, and a retail section will be stocked with makeup kits from Trinny London and skin-care products from Nannette de Gaspé, a Canadian beauty line, among other items.“I think the salon as we know it is over,” Mr. Barrett said. “The New York woman of today doesn’t want to spend her whole day in a store. She is multitasking. I’m creating an environment where you come in and there are things to stimulate you while you are getting your hair colored.” You can also eat. Mr. Barrett has arranged for Bouchon Bakery to supply salads and other light fare. There will also be turmeric ginger tea, blended fresh for each client, as well as the cappuccinos the salon is already known for, now offered with almond or cashew milk.This isn’t Mr. Barrett’s first attempt at reinventing the salon experience. “John was one of the innovators of the full-service salon,” said Sarah Brown, a writer, brand consultant and former beauty director of Vogue. Of course, adding extra services, like brow grooming, manicures and makeup, also added to clients’ bills (manicures cost $45 or more; brow shaping will add another $75). For Mr. Barrett, the reasoning was simple. “If you had a great hairdo and your brows were not right and the makeup was not right, then what good was it?” he said.So Judy Taylor learned the first time she met Mr. Barrett. “He said, ‘Darling, don’t you want to be glamorous?’” Ms. Taylor, a senior vice president for corporate communications and philanthropy at Equinox, was whisked to a chair, where Mr. Barrett told the colorist to make her a blonde. “And then he said, ‘Do something with those eyebrows,’” Ms. Taylor recalled.Mr. Barrett, who was born in Ireland and still speaks with a strong accent, is known for being affable and chatty. It’s a demeanor that can help when contending with eccentric demands, like the client who wanted to be carried to her car after her pedicure.Yet Mr. Barrett’s tolerance for his clients’ antics extends only so far. Perhaps the most bizarre story he tells is of the customer — “a well-dressed, well-turned-out lady” — who had a penchant for urinating in the wastebaskets of the salon’s changing rooms. “The housekeepers really hated her,” he said. “We finally had to tell her, ‘Look, you can’t do that.’” A manager started standing outside the door of the changing room and doing room checks after she exited, which solved the problem. “It was completely crazy.” And just another day at the salon.You’ve heard it before: When the markets become erratic, or seem poised for a prolonged downturn, the best thing you can do is nothing at all. But if you’re on the cusp of retirement — or, perhaps worse, newly retired — a turbulent stock market can make you feel particularly vulnerable.While there’s some validity to those feelings, it’s more productive to redirect any panic into prudence, which will help ensure your money lasts longer. For older people  invested in stocks, the performance of the market in the early years of your retirement can have a lasting effect on your portfolio, which will remain a dynamic entity for perhaps three more decades. If you have to start selling investments when they are worth less, you’ll have to to sell more shares to get the cash you need — and the repercussions build on themselves. “That can really start digging a hole in your portfolio that becomes harder to dig out of,” said Wade Pfau, professor of retirement income at the American College for Financial Services. “It is really the first 10 years of the market performance in retirement that are going to drive your outcome.”While the S&P 500 lost 6.2 percent last year, the final three months of the year were especially volatile. It’s unclear where the market will go tomorrow, or the next decade. But whether you’re getting close to retirement or just starting to work, part of your financial success is a matter of chance: The growth of your portfolio is largely determined by when you started investing and when you retire. Let’s say a person saved 15 percent of her earnings — a flat salary that grew with inflation — during a 30-year career. If that person retired in 1982, she would have accumulated just over five times her final salary. If she retired in 2000, however, she would have amassed 17 times her salary. The same type of variability can occur based on the sequence of your market returns in retirement — except it’s amplified because instead of adding to the money you’ve invested, you’re spending it.There are very simple strategies to try to reduce the effects of an ill-timed downturn or cancel them out altogether: Work longer or pick up a part-time job. Those aren’t feasible for people with health problems, or those who were laid off by their employers a few years shy of when they intended to retire. But they tend to be the most effective ways to help your money last.Here are some other steps retirees can take to lengthen the life of their savings when markets are less than cooperative:Portfolio Check. Retirees need to ask themselves a couple of key questions. Is my portfolio broadly diversified in low-cost investments, such as index funds? Is my allocation to stocks one that my stomach can handle should the market plummet 50 percent, as it did in 2008 and 2009? If you answer “no” to these questions, you should reassess (preferably with a pro) how reducing your stock exposure might change your ability to spend what you want in retirement.Mindful Spending. One of the most widely cited rules for retirement spending might be what’s known as the 4 percent rule. It suggests that retirees who withdrew 4 percent of their initial retirement portfolio balance, and then adjusted that dollar amount for inflation each year thereafter, would have created a paycheck that lasted for 30 years. (The numbers crunched by a financial planner more than two decades ago were based on a portfolio evenly split between stock and bonds.)But if your portfolio value takes a significant hit, your withdrawal rate may have to increase to support your spending. If that rate starts to approach 5 percent, and certainly 6 percent, there’s a greater chance you’ll outlive your portfolio, Mr. Pfau warned. So adjustments may be in order.The simplest way to deal with a dip would be to hold your spending steady, rather than increasing it with inflation. That approach can be enough to steady your finances even if your portfolio were to drop by 25 percent from its original value at retirement, according to Judith Ward, a senior financial planner with T. Rowe Price, based on a recent study. She suggested to keep spending steady for two to four years, depending on when the portfolio rebounds.“Keep in mind, steady spending over a number of years may still result in some kind of spending cuts depending on the inflation environment,” she said. “That may be the easiest and most intuitive approach for many retirees.”Create a Smoother Ride. Traditionally, investors reduce their exposure to stocks as they approach retirement. But one novel approach is to cut that exposure even further — then get back into the market as you age.This strategy, studied by Mr. Pfau and Michael Kitces, director of wealth management at Pinnacle Advisory, is to increase your stock holdings over time. Portfolios that started with about 20 to 40 percent in stocks at retirement, and then gradually increased to about 50 or 60 percent, lasted longer than those with static mixes or those that shed stocks, according to their analysis.Another option is to buy a guaranteed paycheck with a portion of your savings. With an immediate annuity, you pay a lump sum to an insurer in exchange for a guaranteed stream of income for life. A common approach is to consider how much of your must-have basic expenses — like food, shelter, property taxes — are covered by Social Security and any additional income, such as a pension. Then, buy enough annuity income to cover the gap. It also simplifies your financial life, which becomes increasingly important as you age.But be careful with annuities: There are many types, and they can be complex — and not necessarily sold to you by someone who is legally required to put your financial interests ahead of his or her own. Hold a Cash Reserve. If you’re approaching retirement and worried about a significant market correction, there’s another strategy that might provide some peace of mind: Keep up to two years of basic living expenses in cash to cover, say, the costs of housing, food and other essentials. With that sort of buffer, you can try to avoid tapping your investment portfolio for a while, giving it some time to recover. Putting too much money in cash, however, may weaken overall returns because you will have less invested to begin with, and therefore less to build on.Look for Higher Returns. This does not involve chasing after some hot stock or growing sector. It’s far more boring and counterintuitive, but guaranteed to deliver a higher paycheck in retirement over the long run: delay Social Security as long as you reasonably can. “The effective return of delaying Social Security is much higher than what you will earn in the market today,” said David Blanchett, head of retirement research for Morningstar. “It is like a 10 percent guaranteed return.”Your benefits generally rise by 8 percent for each year you wait to collect the check beyond your “full retirement age” — that is, the age you’re eligible for a full benefit, which is currently 66 years and 2 months for people born in 1955. Someone set to receive a full benefit of $1,413 monthly (the average benefit amount), who instead waited two more years, would receive roughly $1,640 — an amount that would rise with inflation.You can think of the money you don’t receive while you delay benefits as a payment for higher guaranteed income later on. And that payment buys you far more in annuity income than if you tried to buy it from a commercial insurer. Get Help. If you doubt you have the strength to avoid temptation and stay the course — or you want assistance developing a coping strategy — this is the time to seek professional help. It can potentially make or break your retirement.But you need to get the right type of help, which means avoiding salespeople and brokers who call themselves advisers but get paid only when they sell you something. Instead, find a certified financial planner who isn’t afraid to promise in writing that he or she will act as a fiduciary, which is legal speak for putting your interests ahead of their own.As the Democrats take over the House and Democratic presidential hopefuls begin the slog toward the 2020 primaries, their party is also debating its economic policy vision for the future.Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just announced that she is forming an exploratory committee for a presidential bid, offers a program that focuses more on what the political scientist Jacob Hacker calls “pre-distribution” — the pretax allocation of economic gains. Pre-distribution focuses on how the seemingly arcane rules of the marketplace — like labor and financial regulation — affect who profits most from economic activity in the first place.In contrast, democratic socialists like Senator Bernie Sanders represent the traditional liberal agenda of redistribution through the tax system as well as generous social-welfare spending. Redistributive policies take the market allocation of profits as a given and devise ways to moderate the resulting inequalities after the fact.Let me be clear: We need all of the above to combat the rampant inequality of wealth and power in the United States today. We need progressive taxation to narrow the income gap and to generate revenue for public investment. And we need government support for child care, medical care and other services to support those who cannot work and to empower those who can.But the Democratic Party would be smart to embrace Senator Warren’s approach and a broader pre-distribution agenda as its next big idea because it deals with the root causes of inequality in America and therefore the voter frustration that helped make Donald Trump president.Pre-distribution is less costly than redistribution because it mostly entails regulatory reforms rather than big spending items, like free college or job guarantees. So it would not provoke many Americans’ deep-seated mistrust of big government as much as calls for redistribution would.Conservatives argue that pretax earnings simply reflect the free operation of the market, but they don’t. There is no pristine free market — just real-world markets thoroughly sullied by imbalances of power and regulations that favor corporations over workers. We should not be shy about revising these regulations to achieve more equitable growth. This would not undermine the capitalist economy; it would enrich it.We tend to speak of the government and the market as adversaries in economic policy debates. They aren’t. The government makes the market work, with vast implications for public welfare. Getting serious about pre-distribution means delving into all the things that governments do to enable modern markets to function properly, from corporate law to antitrust.Last summer, Senator Warren introduced the Accountable Capitalism Act, which tries to tackle the deeper causes of inequality in wealth and power in our country. It would require large corporations to obtain a federal charter of corporate citizenship. Employees would elect at least 40 percent of board members. Executives would have to hold the stock shares they receive as compensation for at least five years. And corporations would have to get approval from 75 percent of their shareholders and 75 percent of their directors to make political campaign donations.Corporations are legal entities with distinct privileges, like limited liability, so it would be perfectly reasonable for the government to require corporate boards to include labor representatives. This would encourage corporations to maximize profits by investing in their workers rather than by cutting labor costs.Beyond corporations, a broader pre-distribution agenda would include labor regulation, financial regulation and antitrust. For example, the government should revise labor regulations to strengthen employees’ bargaining power, which would give them a fairer share of corporate returns. The government should crack down on noncompete clauses, which undermine workers’ ability to sell their labor to the highest bidder. And it should restrict mandatory arbitration clauses in employment contracts, which require workers to give up their right to take their employers to court; such clauses were endorsed by a 5-4 Supreme Court decision in May.This pre-distribution approach to labor would likely appeal to swing voters — in particular, ones who voted for both Barack Obama and Mr. Trump — more than the job guarantees proposed by Senator Sanders because pre-distribution means fair pay rather than government largess.Likewise, financial regulation is not just about preventing financial institutions from taking excessive risks or protecting small investors from their own folly. It is also about something more fundamental: who gets the returns from financial activity. In recent years, the relaxing of regulations has allowed financial firms to enjoy greater profits and bank executives to win higher compensation without delivering more value to ordinary investors. So the government should reinforce the Dodd-Frank rules that constrain financial institutions from padding profits via risky trading — not further ease them, as the Trump administration proposes. It should bolster consumer protection, not gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. And it should enhance the fiduciary rule, which requires investment advisers to put their clients’ interests first, not refuse to enforce it.On antitrust, the government should be warier about corporate mergers, and more aggressive in stopping dominant firms from squashing their competitors. Over the past few decades, weak antitrust enforcement has meant higher profits for companies that dominate their markets, fewer opportunities for challengers, larger salaries for managers, higher prices for consumers and lower wages for workers.Financial regulation and antitrust are central to Ms. Warren’s proposals for leveling the economic playing field. She came to prominence for her strong advocacy of consumer financial protection, and she has pushed for tougher antitrust policies to curtail the economic and political power of large corporations.The pre-distribution agenda, while rooted in the minutiae of government regulation, actually has a simple core message. It is not about rigging the system to benefit the poor and the middle class, but about unrigging it from benefiting the wealthy and the powerful. It is about shaping markets to allocate returns from economic activity more fairly in the first place rather than trying to correct inequities after the fact. In essence, it is about giving consumers more value for their dollar and workers the wages they are due. What could be the problem with that?Steven K. Vogel (@StevenKVogel) is a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of “Marketcraft: How Governments Make Markets Work.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A year ago, in the wake of President Trump’s tax cut, euphoric investors pushed the Dow Jones industrial average past 25,000, a record. The Dow had just gained 25 percent in 2017, and the Nasdaq had leapt 28 percent. Volatility was so low that there wasn’t a single day in 2017 when the S&P 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent.Not everyone was celebrating.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” James Stack, president of InvesTech Research, told me a year ago. “And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”Mr. Stack turned out to be right. He lowered his recommended asset allocation for United States stocks from 82 percent last January to 72 percent in September, when stocks hit new all-time highs. He urged investors to raise cash in October, and at the end of November he recommended an even more defensive posture — including putting money in a fund whose value would rise when stock prices dropped. That brought his recommended net exposure to stocks to just 55 percent, the lowest since the depths of the last bear market in early 2009.Stocks plunged in December, posting their worst monthly loss since the financial crisis and the worst December since 1931 and the Great Depression.Yet most economic indicators are benign. Unemployment is an exceptionally low 3.7 percent. Wages are rising. Inflation remains below the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent target. The Fed raised rates a quarter point in December, citing “a very healthy economy.”Given Mr. Stack’s track record last year, I reached out to him this week for his current views. Even though valuations have come down and macroeconomic indicators “have remained remarkably strong,” he said, he’s still defensive and hasn’t changed his bearish allocation. He believes that the worst isn’t over and that the Dow and S&P 500 will soon be down 20 percent from their peaks, retreating into a bear market. (The Nasdaq Composite and the Wilshire 2000 index of small-cap stocks are already there.)And that was before a revenue warning from Apple sent markets into another steep fall on Thursday.“A lesson from history is that the market leads the economy by a lot longer than investors realize,” Mr. Stack said. If the economy is headed toward recession, as the latest stock market declines suggest it may be, “we won’t see the first economic warning signs until the first three to five months” of 2019. Among the leading indicators he’s watching for signs of weakness are consumer confidence, housing starts and unemployment claims.On Thursday, the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index, a leading indicator of industrial activity, fell sharply. That suggests that “serious cracks” are starting to appear in the economy, Mr. Stack said.Mr. Stack is right that bear markets typically precede recessions by many months: CNBC calculated in 2016 that bear markets since World War II had begun on average about eight months before a recession. That means that if a bear market did begin after major indexes peaked last fall, a recession might not start until June or even later. Even then, recessions are often over before economic data confirms their existence.That’s when bear markets are, in fact, followed by recessions, which often isn’t the case. As the economist Paul Samuelson famously said, “The stock market has forecast nine of the last five recessions.”Since World War II, there have been 13 bear markets. They were followed within a year by a recession just seven times. As a predictor of recessions with just 54 percent accuracy, bear markets are little better than flipping a coin.Indeed, Mr. Stack’s data show that two or more down years in a row are quite rare: There have been only four instances since 1928, suggesting that stocks may well be in positive territory by the end of 2019, even if a bear market does materialize in the meantime.Which is one reason the Wharton economist Jeremy Siegel told me that he’s bullish on the stock market this year. He predicts it could rise between 5 percent and 15 percent, even if there is an economic slowdown.Stocks are much cheaper now than they were before the December sell-off. The ratio between stock prices and projected earnings for companies in the S&P 500 is about 17, down from over 19 a year ago and the lowest in the past five years.[Stocks rose Friday after the release of a strong December jobs report and comments by the chairman of the Federal Reserve that the central bank would be flexible on raising interest rates this year.]Mr. Stack, however, argued that in the event of an economic downturn — or even a significant slowdown — “those projected earnings will go out the window.”“I would not call today’s market undervalued,” he added.Mr. Siegel bases his forecast of a market rally on the belief that the Fed will stop raising short-term interest rates. “I think the Fed got the message from the markets that it should not have hiked in December,” he said.Mr. Stack, too, said he was surprised the Fed raised rates in December. “I think the Fed will stand down and put future rate increases on hold,” he said, “which could stabilize the market, at least for the time being.”But Mr. Stack’s technical indicators are still pointing toward a bear market. He’s also worried about the shaky housing market, with price drops and slowing sales showing up in major cities.“We’re not trying to time the market, but we’re very comfortable with our defensive allocation,” he said. Although he predicted higher volatility a year ago, he was nonetheless surprised by the extremes reached in December, without even “a single hard warning sign of recession on the horizon.”“Can you imagine,” he asked, “how volatile it will be when we do have those warnings?”HONG KONG — With the Chinese economy beginning the new year on a decidedly downbeat note, Beijing’s leaders are injecting more than $200 billion into its financial system to ease lending.The People’s Bank of China on Friday said it would cut the amount of cash that banks must hold as reserves by one percentage point. The move will essentially free up 1.5 trillion Chinese renminbi, or about $218 billion, for an economy experiencing weaker factory output and consumer confidence while it weathers a trade war with the United States.The cut is not unusual for China’s central bank, but it comes amid uncertainty about how Beijing will manage slower growth. China’s slowdown has contributed to shaky global financial markets. On Wednesday, underscoring the broad impact, Apple unexpectedly cut its sales forecast for its latest quarter, citing disappointing iPhone sales in China, once one of its most vibrant markets.Chinese officials pledged last month to step up support of the economy, and they are facing new urgency, said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist for Capital Economics, a research firm. Retail and auto sales are down, and China’s latest manufacturing data showed factory activity shrank in December. While monthly data released on Friday showed improvement in China’s services sector, the overall picture has become more concerning.“The consistently downbeat tone of the data released since then will only have underlined the strains the economy is facing,” Mr. Williams said.This month, China will report economic growth figures for the last three months of 2018. While China’s headline growth figure is widely seen as unreliable, it dipped in the third quarter to 6.5 percent, its lowest level of expansion since the aftermath of the global financial crisis.The move by the central bank on Friday appeared to be part of a coordinated effort. Earlier in the day, Li Keqiang, the country’s premier, said China would move to shore up the economy through measures that included cutting bank reserve requirement ratios and lowering taxes.The central bank said it would cut its reserve requirement ratio — a measure of how much cash from deposits that lenders need to keep — by half a percentage point on Jan. 15 and another half a percentage point by Jan. 25.The move will give banks more leeway to lend money, though analysts noted the net amount of money flowing into the system would be roughly half the $218 billion headline figure, as the central bank shuts off other sources of funds. It also comes roughly a month before China’s Lunar New Year holiday, when Chinese households sometimes strain the monetary system by spending more and by giving cash as gifts.China has traditionally used its state-controlled banking system to flood the economy with money when growth slows. Last year, China cut the reserve ratio four times. But economists, small businesses and many others say the mechanism shovels money into big, inefficient companies or into investment bubbles instead of toward the smaller entrepreneurs who need it more.The cut “will be good for curbing the economic downturn and solving the financing difficulties of enterprises,” said Yu Yongding, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.“But this is just one policy,” Mr. Yu added, saying it risks pouring money into real estate and the stock market, which would do little to solve the economy’s problems. “We need a lot of other policies to cooperate.”For several weeks, economists and analysts have speculated that officials could move to push a hefty stimulus package that would give the flagging economy a shot in the arm. But such bold moves have become increasingly difficult for the Chinese government, which is contending with a huge debt load accumulated over the last decade to spur growth.Still, many analysts took the move as a sign that China’s leader would be proactive in heading off any worsening slump.“The central bank has made it clear that this wasn’t ‘releasing the floodwaters’ by providing a huge stimulus comparable to that introduced in 2009, but it is clear that they are redoubling efforts to stabilize the economy and the currency,” Geoffrey Yu, the head of the British investment office of the Swiss bank UBS, said in an email.“This swift action supports our view that there won’t be a sharp deceleration in the Chinese economy this year and that fears of a major global slowdown are overdone,” Mr. Yu added.Good Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The pain of the government shutdown is showingPresident Trump escalated the border wall fight in a televised speech last night, at the cost of leaving the government partly closed. He criticized political opponents for blocking the wall, although Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security measures like surveillance and fencing.The effects of the shutdown have begun to ripple across the economy, with mortgage applications delayed or canceled, public companies unable to complete deals and the well running dry for many federal employees.• Payday would have come this week for many of the 800,000 federal workers affected. With no paychecks on the way, their savings are evaporating and their credit cards are being maxed out.• The impasse is being felt elsewhere in the economy, including in home sales. Buyers are pulling out because of “economic uncertainty,” according to a National Association of Realtors survey. And closings are being delayed or canceled because customers’ mortgages were backed by federal agencies.• Several regulators are down to a skeleton staff, and companies are telling investors that their pending takeovers and stock sales could be delayed.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Can U.S. negotiators trust China’s peace offerings?Trade talks in Beijing wrapped up today, as Chinese and American negotiators hurry to strike a deal before March, when the Trump administration has threatened to raise tariffs again.In recent weeks, the Chinese have made some concessions, resuming purchases of American soybeans, dropping retaliatory measures on U.S.-made cars. China has also offered to welcome more foreign investors and help limit forced transfer of overseas companies’ technology to Chinese businesses.Yesterday, President Trump wrote on Twitter that the discussions were “going very well!”But in Washington, many are sounding a note of caution: Are China’s promises too vague? Are they enforceable? One scholar described Beijing’s compromises as “a modest adjustment” when the U.S. and other countries want a “great leap in liberalization.”The Kim surprise:  Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, stepped off a train in Beijing yesterday to meet with President Xi Jinping, at the Chinese government’s invitation. China said the timing of his arrival was coincidental, but his presence was a reminder that the U.S. needs China’s cooperation to exert pressure on North Korea.Scheduling issues: The Trump administration has said that if negotiations fail, it will raise tariffs on Chinese goods on March 2. But there are several other key dates in play.• Mr. Trump will attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, which starts Jan. 22. But the U.S. is reluctant to set up formal trade negotiations there, possibly because the president plans to use his State of the Union address, on Jan. 29, to demand broader powers to raise tariffs.• But China wants progress before the Lunar New Year on Feb. 4, which is generally preceded by a surge in consumer spending.China has reason to rush: The trade tensions are hurting its economy.• The World Bank said yesterday that Chinese growth would slow to 6.2 percent this year from 6.5 percent last year. Global growth is predicted to fall to 2.9 percent from 3 percent in 2018.• Corporate insolvencies are expected to increase faster in China than in any other major economy this year, growing by a fifth in 2019.• Chinese bond yields are at a two-year low. Its central bank loosened credit conditions five times in the past year.• Signs of progress in the talks drove markets higher in the U.S. yesterday and in Europe and Asia today.A reprieve for SearsThe struggling retailer reached a deal yesterday to stay alive after a flurry of last-minute negotiations, the NYT’s Michael Corkery writes. Sears’s chairman, Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager who took control in 2005, now has the opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion bid for the company. He is expected to enter an official bid at a court-supervised auction next week.Sears’ largest creditors are in the driving seat, and they have two options. They can let Mr. Lampert try to maintain it as a “going concern” or force it to liquidate by selling all its real estate, inventory, intellectual property and other assets.Other retail news: In the first retail holiday update, J.C. Penney reported yesterday that adjusted comparable sales fell 3.5 percent during the crucial shopping period. The department store chain, based in Plano, Tex., also said it would close three stores and may announce more as its new chief executive, Jill Soltau, attempts a turnaround.Sumner Redstone and his ex-girlfriend reach a truceThe media tycoon Sumner Redstone, 95, settled a long-running legal conflict with Manuela Herzer, writes Edmund Lee of the NYT. It was ostensibly focused on her right to his holdings, but it drew interest because of the salacious details it disclosed and the questions it raised about his mental state.Mr. Redstone and his daughter, Shari Redstone, run the private theater chain National Amusements, through which they control the CBS television network and a portfolio of companies at Viacom that include MTV and Paramount Pictures.Ms. Herzer, who is at least four decades younger than Mr. Redstone, had been named as a beneficiary of his will until he stripped her from the document in 2015 and forced her out of his mansion in Beverly Hills.Fallout from the ensuing court battle led Mr. Redstone to scale back his involvement in CBS and Viacom, and prompted a succession struggle that put his daughter at the top of the media empire.Court filings show that Ms. Herzer must now pay back $3.25 million in gifts and money received while she was Mr. Redstone’s companion.Dark days for Deutsche BankInvestment bankers at the embattled financial institution are steeling themselves for a double-digit cut to their bonus pool, according to the FT.Deutsche has been battered by bad news in the past year: Its stock price hit record lows, competitors are gobbling up its market share, and top-level employees are jumping ship as it fires thousands of others. In the third quarter, the bank said that revenue at its trading desk sank 15 percent.Last year, the company paid out 2.2 billion euros in incentives to employees; the final amount for this year will be announced on March 22.Revolving doorMetLife said Michel Khalaf, president of the insurer’s U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa businesses, would become its chief executive when Steven Kandarian retires on April 30. (WSJ)Herbalife Nutrition said Michael Johnson would return as its chief executive, after Richard Goudis, his successor, resigned over comments made before his promotion. (WSJ)Monzo, a banking start-up, is hiring Gary Hoffman, a former Barclays vice chairman who steered Northern Rock through its emergency bailout early in the financial crisis, as chairman. He will replace Denise Kingsmill. (FT)The speed readDeals• Executives from Siemens and Alstom met yesterday with Margrethe Vestager, the European Union competition commissioner, in an effort to rescue their troubled rail deal. (Bloomberg)• A six-month lockup period on stock in the smartphone maker Xiaomi expires today, letting employees and cornerstone investors sell shares. (Bloomberg)• Mexico’s new government is looking to woo investors and bolster initial public offerings by reducing its tax rate on them. (FT)• GlaxoSmithKline will look to buy early-stage assets and make partnerships, said the drugmaker’s chief executive, Emma Walmsley. (Reuters)Tech• Larry Ellison, the executive chairman of Oracle and a longtime friend of Elon Musk, disclosed a $1 billion stake in Tesla in regulatory filings. (MarketWatch)• Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are seeking input from hundreds of groups, including right-leaning ones, to help referee political speech. (WSJ)• Want to delete the Facebook app? On some Samsung smartphones, you can’t. (Bloomberg)• Skyworks, which supplies semiconductors to Apple, lowered its earnings guidance, citing weakness across its largest smartphone customers. (CNBC)• Apple’s Tim Cook earned $15.6 million last year, according to a regulatory finding — an increase of nearly 22 percent over 2017. (CNET)• Mr. Cook criticized Qualcomm as charging “exorbitant prices” to use its patents and employing “illegal” licensing policies, dashing hopes of a settlement in the companies’ legal fight. (CNBC)• Officials in Vietnam say Facebook failed to remove “slanderous content,” violating local law. (FT)Politics and policy• Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chief, shared polling data with an associate tied to Russian intelligence during the 2016 race, prosecutors said. (NYT)• There’s a sealed grand jury subpoena demanding information from an unnamed foreign corporation, which may or may not be from Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation. The Supreme Court is letting it proceed. (NYT)• The Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in 2016, Natalia Veselnitskaya, was charged by federal prosecutors in Manhattan with trying to thwart a separate money-laundering investigation. (NYT)• Democrats are demanding a delay in the Trump administration’s plan to lift sanctions on the aluminum businesses run by Oleg Deripaska, a Russian billionaire linked to the Kremlin. (FT)Best of the rest• Barbie is heading to the big screen, in a live-action film starring and co-produced by Margot Robbie. The news of the film lifted stock in the toy’s manufacturer, Mattel. (FT)• Has the market hit bottom? There are arguments either way. (Bloomberg)• Steve Eisman, the fund manager known for his role in the book “The Big Short,” is nervous about another threat to the financial system: BBB-rated corporate bonds. (FT)• Small-cap stocks seem poised for another year of double-digit profit gains, even as earnings at larger firms falter. (WSJ)• Chinese buyers have been the top foreign investors in both units and dollar volume of residential real estate for six years straight, with a focus on million-dollar properties. Now, more middle-class investors are hunting for affordable homes. (CNBC)• It may be the wrong time for anything radical at Barclays, but the activist Edward Bramson might still be good on its board. (WSJ)• By 2030, emerging markets are likely to have blossomed into seven of the top 10 economies in the world, with China at the top of the list and India surpassing the U.S. (Bloomberg)• American stock values: headed for a “conscious recoupling” with global equities? (WSJ)• Dubai’s ruler has plans to triple the size of his city-state’s financial center. (FT)• Hedge funds posted a 4.07 percent annual loss last year, beating the market’s performance for the first time in a decade; the S&P 500 fell 4.38 percent. (CNBC)• Palladium is on a tear, with the metal’s per-ounce price rising more than 140 percent since the beginning of 2016 and reaching $1,329 yesterday. It’s primarily used in catalytic converters, and became more expensive than gold in December. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.WASHINGTON — The impact of a partial government shutdown began to ripple across the economy as it stretched into Day 17, with mortgage applications delayed, public companies unable to get approval to raise capital and thousands of Secret Service agents expected to show up for work without pay.President Trump and congressional Democrats have made little progress in negotiations to end a shutdown that has affected about 800,000 federal workers, many of whom will miss their first paycheck this week, and who owe a combined $249 million in monthly mortgage payments, according to the online real estate firm Zillow.The shutdown shows no sign of ending soon, with Mr. Trump announcing Monday that he would address the nation on Tuesday evening from the Oval Office to discuss what he called the crisis at the southern border, and the White House saying that he would travel to the border this week as part of his effort to persuade Americans of the need for a wall — the sticking point in negotiations with Democrats.The standoff is beginning to inflict pain on Americans, whose lives are affected, in one way or another, by the federal government. It is already the second-longest shutdown in history, behind the one that started in December 1995 and lasted 21 days.On Monday, the Trump administration moved to soften some of the blow — and prevent taxpayer outrage — by directing the Internal Revenue Service to issue tax refunds during the shutdown, reversing previous policy. While the decision will allow taxpayers to get their money, the I.R.S. workers being called back from furlough to process those refunds will not be paid until the shutdown ends.The effects of a prolonged shutdown have some Wall Street economists predicting a hit to the United States economy. Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists said Monday that it had pushed them to downgrade their estimates for economic growth at the end of 2018 by a 10th of a percent.The ramifications of a prolonged shutdown are beginning to unnerve those both inside and outside the federal government. Some private companies and charities that serve public employees are searching for ways to cushion the impact.The effects extend from the president’s inner circle, to Wall Street to farm country.Virtually every employee with the Secret Service involved in investigations, security and the protective division, which protects Mr. Trump and dozens of other current and former government officials and their families, is required to work during the shutdown. And 6,000 of the organization’s roughly 7,000 employees will not be paid.The same is true at the Securities and Exchange Commission, which has come to a standstill with “only an extremely limited number of staff members available to respond to emergency situations,” according to a shutdown plan posted on the commission’s website.As the effect moves well beyond the nation’s capital, craft brewers cannot get approval from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau for new beer labels. And the Commerce Department has stopped processing requests from auto suppliers and other manufacturing companies seeking an exemption from Mr. Trump’s metal tariffs, leaving them uncertain over the price they will need to pay for key materials this year.Farmers who planned to apply for subsidies to help mitigate the effect of Mr. Trump’s trade war must wait to get paid until the Agriculture Department’s Farm Service Agency offices reopen. And in neighborhoods across the country, as many as 39,000 federally backed mortgage applications may have already been delayed because of reduced staffing in federal agencies, according to Zillow estimates.The tax refund decision flies in the face of previous shutdown plans — and interpretations of federal law — when the I.R.S. was prohibited from dispensing tax refunds.The earliest I.R.S. statistics from 2018 show that 18 million individual tax returns had been filed by Feb. 2. By that point, the I.R.S. had issued more than six million refunds, totaling $12.6 billion — an average refund of $2,035. The agency issued more than $324 billion in refunds for all of last year.Several nonprofit organizations, including the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, are trying to aid Department of Homeland Security workers who need immediate help with a limited pool of cash and other resources, an officer with the group’s charitable foundation said. The Navy Federal Credit Union is offering no-interest loans to service members who face the prospect of missed paychecks. USAA, though, has drawn criticism from members of the Coast Guard for offering similar loans that charge interest.Secret Service agents are growing increasingly anxious and angry about the shutdown, according to several current and former agents. The Secret Service protects 42 people associated with the Trump White House, 11 more than were given details during the Obama administration. In August 2017, the agency’s new director, Randolph D. Alles, told an interviewer that the sprawling Trump entourage was putting unprecedented strains on his agents, in terms of staffing and budgeting.“They are asking you to put your life on the line and not paying you — it’s ridiculous,” said Donald Mihalek, 49, a 20-year Secret Service veteran whose own retirement paperwork has yet to be processed because of the shutdown.“Morale is a serious issue,” said Mr. Mihalek, who served on the presidential detail during George W. Bush’s and Barack Obama’s administrations. “This is an incredibly stressful job that requires your full attention, and if you are standing there thinking about your mortgage, or your credit card bills, or the fact that you are burning through your savings, you are distracted, you not able to give 100 percent.”Financial enforcement is also suffering. The S.E.C. has about 4,400 full-time employees and during the shutdown is operating with just a few hundred — most of those tasked “to protect life or property.”The constrained operations means pending investigations in securities violations have ground to a halt, and there is no one reviewing applications for company stock offerings to raise cash or consider merger and acquisition filings.Defense and corporate lawyers said meetings with potential witnesses in pending investigations have been canceled, and some companies seeking to raise cash through a stock offering are having to bide their time. Staff lawyers at the S.E.C. are largely prohibited from responding to emails seeking information or guidance.In the past, the S.E.C. had managed to keep operating during government shutdowns by shifting around money in its budget. But the commission, which has been operating under a hiring freeze for more than a year, is not able to do that this time.“When I was there, we always had money to be able to operate for a certain period of time,” said Andrew M. Calamari, a lawyer with Finn Dixon & Herling in Connecticut, who stepped down as the director of the S.E.C.’s New York office in October 2017. “I was there for 17 years, and in my time, we had several shutdowns, and in each case, we continued to operate.”The S.E.C. said in a statement that staff “continues to monitor the asset management space, track market activity and watch for systems issues or other events that could disrupt the fair and orderly operation of the securities markets.”The agency also said it had advised financial filers to request expedited action before the shutdown.But corporate America will now have to wait for the government to reopen in order to move ahead with things like initial public offerings and pending corporate mergers that need approvals from regulators.“I have a client in registration right now for an M.&A. deal, and nothing is going on,” said Marc Leaf, a partner at Drinker Biddle & Reath in New York who used to work for the S.E.C. as an adviser to a commissioner.Mr. Leaf also said so-called secondary stock offerings — which companies often rely on to raise cash — are paused. A dearth of those deals could create financial hardships for midsize public companies that have fewer financial resources to draw upon.“If this it is not solved and goes on for weeks, there will be companies who are really slowed down in the public offering process,” Mr. Leaf said. “There is a lot of basic blocking and tackling that can’t get done, and that will impact a number of issuers.”Deutsche Bank economists warned on Monday that the shutdown could also affect the Federal Reserve’s interest rate decisions by delaying the release of key economic data, like new home sales and durable goods orders. That delay “would significantly impair” economic forecasters’ ability to gauge growth, the economists wrote, and cloud decision-making for Fed officials who have emphasized “data dependence” in their policy decisions.The biggest and most far-reaching effect of the shutdown looms on Feb. 1. Trump administration officials say that funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, which provides food benefits for about 40 million people, will run out of cash by the end of the month. The Agriculture Department has not made it clear how long it will be able to fund the program, which costs about $4.7 billion a month, but estimates by anti-hunger groups put the department’s reserves at $3 billion to $5 billion, meaning funding is more likely to completely run out in February or March.Other food assistance programs are facing a more immediate cash crunch. The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, known as WIC, has already been cut off, with state funds filling the gap as the shutdown drags on. WIC provides aid to an additional seven million low-income Americans who are considered to be at “nutritional risk.”Stocks rose on Monday, buoyed by the efforts of central bankers to ease economic worries, as investors watched for developments in trade talks between the United States and China.Trade negotiators from Washington and Beijing began discussions aimed at reaching an agreement that would end a trade war between the two countries. The United States and China have agreed to a standstill until early March so that they may reach a deal.The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent, while the Nasdaq composite gained 1.3 percent as shares of large technology companies like Amazon and Netflix rose sharply.After its shares rose 3.4 percent, Amazon ended the day with a market value of $797 billion, leapfrogging Microsoft to make it the largest company, by market capitalization, in the United States.[Read more about how President Trump sees China’s recent economic weakness as an opportunity.]As the trade war drags on, however, investors have grown worried about its economic impact as well as the risk to corporate profits. Those worries were amplified last week when Apple warned that its sales in the most recent quarter would be worse than expected because of slowing demand for iPhones in China. And the rising cost of imports is also affecting businesses in the United States.[Read more about American factory owners who say the trade war is hurting them.]Offsetting those concerns, on Friday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said the Fed would be flexible amid market turbulence and broader concerns about slowing global growth. The comments sent shares in the United States higher, as did strong job numbers for December.Also on Friday, the People’s Bank of China essentially injected $218 billion into the country’s financial system. The move was intended to ease lending in the Chinese economy, which has experienced weaker factory output and consumer confidence.Asian shares ended higher Monday, while Europe’s major indexes pared early gains to close lower.The Nikkei 225 index in Japan jumped 2.4 percent, and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong closed 0.8 percent higher. In China, the Shanghai composite index rose 0.7 percent, and the Shenzhen composite index rallied 1.7 percent.The Euro Stoxx 50 index of European blue chips closed 0.3 percent lower, and the CAC 40 in France and FTSE 100 Britain were down about 0.4 percent. The Dax in Germany was 0.2 percent lower.Good Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Hope springs eternal on Wall Street. But should it?Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYT’s Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Here’s a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors don’t see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trump’s unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasn’t just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies — China, Japan and the European Union — appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. China’s methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The market’s fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing “doom loops.” Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.Asian markets off to a discouraging startNew data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia.• The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years.• The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&P futures also took a hit.• Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Fed’s position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world.• Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that “winter is coming.” In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was “as cold and real as winter to every company.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Behind U.S. strategy in trade talks with ChinaWith talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, “Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are ‘easy to win’ and his recent boast that he is a ‘Tariff Man,’ Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.”After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Big plans for Big TechSilicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYT’s David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Tech’s dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Year’s post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is tech’s chance to make it right.A global turf war over A.I.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technology’s importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYT’s Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of “emerging and foundational technologies” being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Revolving doorSpencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Year’s speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)The speed readDeals• Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ)• Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the world’s largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT)• The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy• The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT)• How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT)• Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech• A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR)• Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN)• Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters)• Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest• Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT)• Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ)• Denmark’s government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT)• Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ)• Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ)• Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT)• Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as China’s central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT)• American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo)• Showtime’s fictional series “Black Monday,” premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo)• Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg)• Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels “snakebitten.” (WSJ)• Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.ATLANTA — Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, said Friday that low inflation would allow the Fed to be “patient” in deciding whether to continue raising interest rates, a message welcomed by jittery investors.The Fed is confronting an increasingly uncertain economic outlook. Falling stock prices, weakening global growth and concerns about President Trump’s economic policies have set investors on edge and prompted warnings that the economic expansion is nearing its end. But measures of domestic economic activity remain strong, including Friday’s report the economy added 312,000 jobs in December.Mr. Powell’s message on Friday was that the Fed can afford to watch and wait. He said the best available evidence suggested that the economy was still in good shape. But he also was at pains to reassure investors unsettled by his confident tone at his last news conference, in mid-December. He said that the Fed was watching for evidence of weakness, and that the health of the economy would ultimately determine the course of policy.“With the muted inflation readings that we’ve seen coming in, we will be patient as we watch to see how the economy evolves,” Mr. Powell said. The Fed predicted in December that it would raise rates twice in 2019, but Mr. Powell said the central bank was ready to change course “significantly if necessary.”The stock market, driven down on Thursday by concerns about growth, surged on Friday on the strength of the jobs data, and then kept climbing as Mr. Powell spoke. Investors who are worried about the growing economic impact of a trade war with China also hoped for progress toward a resolution when the Trump administration and Chinese officials hold meetings next week.The S&P 500 rose 84.05 points to close at 2,531.94; the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose 0.11 points to close at 2.668 percent.[Read more: The jobs data, and signs of flexibility at the Fed, helped stocks soar on Friday.]Mr. Powell also defended the Fed’s autonomy on Friday in the face of sharp attacks by Mr. Trump, who has complained to aides that the Fed’s rate increases would undermine economic growth and “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the president during the Great Depression’s early years.Some of Mr. Trump’s economic advisers, alarmed by his inquiries as to whether he has the power to fire Mr. Powell, want to arrange a meeting between the two men. Mr. Powell, under questioning by Neil Irwin, an economics writer at The New York Times, said that he was open to meeting with Mr. Trump, as Fed chairs have done with past presidents, but that no meeting had been scheduled.He also said the Fed would make policy without regard to Mr. Trump’s views. “I want the public to be assured that we have a strong culture, it’s not a fragile one, it’s not being disrupted,” he said.Asked if he would resign if Mr. Trump asked him to do so, Mr. Powell replied directly: “No.”Mr. Powell was joined onstage at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association by his immediate predecessors at the Fed, Janet L. Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke. Both of them criticized Mr. Trump’s attacks as potentially damaging to the central bank, and therefore to the economy.Strong economic growth fueled the Fed’s decision to raise its benchmark rate four times in 2018, into a range from 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent. The rate, which had hovered near zero in the wake of the financial crisis a decade earlier, now sits at the lower end of the range that Fed officials consider a reasonable estimate of “neutrality,” meaning that the central bank is neither encouraging nor discouraging economic growth.Fed officials say the continued strength of the economy validates their management of monetary policy. “I think we’re actually in a good spot,” Loretta Mester, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, told CNBC on Friday, noting that job growth is strong and inflation is under control.But critics, including Mr. Trump, have said the economy still needs the Fed’s help. Inflation remains below the 2 percent annual pace the Fed regards as optimal, suggesting that the economy has room to grow, and workers are only beginning to reap the benefits of an expansion now in its 10th year.Clouds also are gathering on the economic horizon. The Trump administration increased economic growth last year through large tax cuts and increased federal spending, but those benefits are waning. And Mr. Trump’s trade war with China is beginning to be felt by American companies, like Apple and FedEx, which have warned that the tit-for-tat tariffs are pinching profits. The Fed’s decision to raise the benchmark rate at its most recent meeting, in mid-December, drove down stock prices and bond yields in a show of concern about the prospects for continued economic growth. Asset prices imply an expectation that the Fed will not raise interest rates at all during 2019.Mr. Powell began his remarks by reiterating his view that the markets’ concerns are overstated. He said that 2018 had been “a good year for the United States economy” and that the latest economic data suggested “ongoing momentum heading into 2019.” Wall Street’s pessimism, he said, is “well ahead of the data.”But the Fed chairman offered a different kind of relief to financial markets by emphasizing that the slow pace of inflation allows the Fed to postpone judgments about the resilience of the economic expansion.Inflation was 1.8 percent during the 12 months that ended in November, the most recent available data. It is likely that inflation remained soft in December, marking the seventh straight year that prices rose by less than 2 percent.And inflation would have been even weaker but for the impact of Mr. Trump’s tariffs, according to a study published Friday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mr. Trump has repeatedly argued that the cost of the tariffs, which are taxes on imported goods, is being absorbed by Chinese exporters. But the study found that American consumers were paying a hefty price. The authors estimated that the tariffs added about 0.3 percentage points to the Consumer Price Index last year.Job growth has remained strong, and wage growth has increased in recent months, but Mr. Powell said the Fed was on guard against rising prices, not rising wages. He said the strength of the labor market “does not raise concerns about too high inflation.”Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase, said Mr. Powell’s remarks convinced him that the Fed would move more slowly in 2019. Mr. Feroli previously predicted three rate increases in 2019; he said he now expected the Fed to raise rates twice, in July and December.“Powell’s message was unmistakable,” Mr. Feroli wrote in a note to clients.Mr. Powell also sought to ease concerns in financial markets about the Fed’s gradual reduction of its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, which it bought in large quantities during the financial crisis to help bolster the economy. Some analysts have argued that the Fed’s retreat is exacerbating the current volatility in financial markets.Mr. Powell said that the Fed disagreed but, returning to his theme for the day, that it was watching closely and willing to change its mind.“If we ever came to the conclusion that any aspect of our plans was somehow interfering with our attainment of our statutory goals, we wouldn’t hesitate to change it,” he said.David Caspe turned 8 in 1986, a year (almost to the day) before the stock market crash that is the ostensible subject of his new Showtime series, “Black Monday.” I mention that because, watching the show, it often feels like you’re seeing the ’80s through the eyes of a precocious youngster glued to the television. Designer jeans, Rae Dawn Chong, “Diff’rent Strokes,” Grandmaster Flash, Marion Barry, Michael Jackson, cocaine buffets. Cartoonish characters living large in cartoonish clothes.The barrage of period allusions functions as a connective tissue binding the disjointed parts of “Black Monday,” which tries to stitch together an over-the-top comedy of the go-go ’80s and a tut-tutting, cautionary morality tale, fitted out with appropriate music, fashions and hairstyles. What it doesn’t supply is an actual feel for the period, or a coherent point of view about it, or anything more than clichés for the show’s talented stars — Don Cheadle, Andrew Rannells and Regina Hall — to play.The half-hour series, which begins Sunday, is clearly meant to satirize something, but the target is elusive. Caspe (who created “Black Monday” with Jordan Cahan) is best known for “Happy Endings,” a short-lived early 2010s network sitcom with a small but rabid fan base. “Happy Endings” charted the intertwined lives of a group of six besties, but it was really about an idea of communal post-college friendship in the post-“Friends” era.In a similar way — but with a premium-cable license for smuttier and colder jokes — “Black Monday” seems to be satirizing an idea of 1980s Wall Street excess, rather than anything that actually existed. A subplot in the early episodes (three of 10 were available) even involves a writer trailing the show’s main character, the trader Maurice “Mo” Monroe (Cheadle), to gather material for an Oliver Stone film. (“Wall Street,” one of the best-timed movies ever, came out two months after the real Black Monday.)After retro-font versions of the Showtime logo and the show’s title, “Black Monday” opens with a short scene on the day of the crash: paper-strewn Lower Manhattan streets, a man with his head in his hands, a body plummeting from a height into a Lamborghini limousine. (If it’s not meant to suggest 9/11, it’s quite a coincidence; if it is, it fits with an overall harsh glibness reflected in a later joke about Michael Hutchence and autoerotic asphyxiation, or references to “Jew lawyers” and “Jew church” and a line like “You just holo-cost me my job.”)Then the action jumps back a year, to October 1986, and we’re told that we’re going to learn why Black Monday happened. This will somehow involve Mo, founder of an upstart, outsider firm called the Jammer Group; his top trader and ex-lover, Dawn Towner (Hall); and Blair Pfaff (Rannells), a Bambi-like innocent who’s developed a revolutionary robo-trading algorithm.The main thread of the story, so far, involves Mo’s elaborately planned entrapment of Blair, who ends up working at the Jammer Group when his loftier prospects fall through. Surrounding this are Mo’s risky play involving a jeans company and Lehman Brothers (portrayed as actual twin brothers, played by Ken Marino); the browbeating Blair takes at home from his spoiled wife (played by Casey Wilson, Caspe’s wife and a “Happy Endings” alum); and Dawn’s domestic life with her husband (Kadeem Hardison), a condescending surgeon.The three leads do the best they can with their stock characters. Cheadle can do comically menacing braggadocio as well as anyone, and he’s perfectly convincing here, but the writing doesn’t give us much reason to care about Mo — his drives to make money and consume cocaine are surface attributes, like Cheadle’s obviously artificial Afro. (His business decisions, and the show’s depiction of the financial world in general, are distractingly illogical, even for a satirical comedy.)Blair is just as one-note, befuddlement mixed with exasperation, though Rannells has slightly funnier material. Hall gets a little more to play; she’ll draw the audience’s sympathy, because she’s playing the only character you’re likely to make a connection to — but being Mo’s and the show’s guilty conscience is no bargain.Most of these considerations will be beside the point if you’re a fan of the verbal warp and woof of Caspe’s method — the enveloping fabric of one-liners, insults, puns and, especially, references that register as jokes simply by virtue of their surprise value.In “Black Monday” that humor often has a brotastic, locker room flavor, perhaps meant to invoke an innocently dirty quality in the film comedies of the period. In a scene where Blair is desperately trying to make a deadline, a Jammer trader takes out his penis and slaps Blair on the shoulder with it to distract him — while El DeBarge sings “When it feels like / the world is on your shoulders” on the soundtrack. The crash may be coming, but there’s a bull market in obviousness.John C. Bogle, who died on Wednesday, is widely seen as having changed how ordinary people invest their money. His firm, the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies, which grew to have $4.9 trillion under management, was built on a belief that, over the long term, most investment managers cannot outperform the broad stock market averages. “Jack Bogle made an impact on not only the entire investment industry, but more importantly, on the lives of countless individuals saving for their futures or their children’s futures,” Tim Buckley, Vanguard’s chief executive, said in a statement. Here are some of Mr. Bogle’s investment tips: 1. Stay the course“Wise investors won’t try to outsmart the market,” he says. “They’ll buy index funds for the long term, and they’ll diversify.” Long-term investors must hold stocks even though the market is risky, because they are still likely to produce better returns than the alternatives, Mr. Bogle said in 2012. Investors should weather any storms, he told The Wall Street Journal in 2016.“If we’re going to have lower returns, well, the worst thing you can do is reach for more yield. You just have to save more.” 2. Beware the experts Money managers missed all the warning signs before the 2008 financial crisis, Mr. Bogle noted: “How could so many highly skilled, highly paid securities analysts and researchers have failed to question the toxic-filled, leveraged balance sheets of Citigroup and other leading banks and investment banks?”In 2017, he waved younger investors away from financial advisers and gave his approval to robo-advisers. “Unless you need a financial adviser to help you get started in that routine, you probably don't need a financial adviser at all,” he told CNBC. 3. Keep costs down Vanguard’s fund shareholders own it collectively, so there is no parent company or private owner to siphon profit, allowing the firm to keep costs down. “In investing, you get what you don’t pay for. Costs matter. So intelligent investors will use low-cost index funds to build a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds, and they will stay the course. And they won’t be foolish enough to think that they can consistently outsmart the market.” Mr. Bogle became a harsh critic in his later years of the mutual fund industry and the high fees charged to investors for stock-picking expertise. 4. Don’t get emotional Invest in a diverse selection of stocks and bonds, trust in the arithmetic and stick to it — this was the essence of Mr. Bogle’s advice for Vanguard investors. “Impulse is your enemy,” was one of the mantras. “Eliminate emotion from your investment program. Have rational expectations for future returns and avoid changing those expectations in response to the ephemeral noise coming from Wall Street.” 5. Own the entire stock market Mr. Bogle was the leading proponent of structuring an investment portfolio to mirror the performance of a market yardstick, like the S&P 500 stock index. “The S&P 500 is a great proxy,” Mr. Bogle told The Wall Street Journal last year, adding that he hadn’t bought an individual stock in about 25 years. Mr. Bogle also told CNBC that the United States market was a safer bet than other markets. “U.S. companies are innovative and entrepreneurial,” he said. Stocks have staged a remarkable turnaround in the early days of 2019, rebounding after an end-of-the-year tailspin that was fomented by fears of recession in the United States.Three straight weeks of gains in the new year on Wall Street have erased nearly all of 2018’s losses. It’s the best start to a year since 1987.Even so, many factors behind last year’s troubling decline remain unresolved. American companies and consumers are less optimistic about the future, and large economies like Germany and China are signaling a global slowdown driven by the trade war. Britain is in turmoil over leaving the European Union. And a new concern, the longest federal government shutdown in history, also poses a risk to the domestic economy.A month ago, any one of those elements might have fueled a steep decline in stocks. In December, waves of panic-driven selling left the S&P 500 dangling almost 20 percent below its high. Now, it’s all being taken in stride.The difference is an abrupt change in tone from the Federal Reserve. This year began with repeated public assurances from Fed officials that they were sensitive to concerns about the economy and would be patient and flexible as they decided whether to raise interest rates.Investors were alarmed last year by the idea that the central bank was determined to keep raising rates, risking a recession. It wasn’t just Wall Street that worried. As stocks were sliding in December, President Trump, who boasted about stocks as they rose earlier in the year, became fixated on the Fed and its chairman, Jerome H. Powell. “The only problem our economy has is the Fed,” he wrote on Twitter on Dec. 24.“They’re trying their best to be a source of stability in markets,” said Samantha Azzarello, global market strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management. “What happened last year really shook people and their confidence in investing in equities.”The Fed has always held sway over the financial markets, but that influence tends to grow in the later stages of an expansion, when every interest rate increase is seen as the one that might trip up the economy.The United States economy is still strong: The unemployment rate is near 50-year lows, wages are starting to rise and growth in corporate profits remains robust. To the Fed, these are reasons to keep raising borrowing costs and stave off potential inflation. It did so four times in 2018.But after 10 years of economic growth, many investors are worried that a turning point is near, and that higher interest rates might bring on a slowdown faster than they expect. And the recent stock market gains may not stick without proof that corporate profits can keep growing.“We’re in a bit of a ‘show me’ moment for skeptical and uncertain investors,” said Kate Moore, chief equity strategist for BlackRock, the world’s largest investment firm. “It’s going to have to be backed up with earnings and the confidence that those earnings are going to be sustainable.”This past week, American companies began disclosing their sales and profits for the fourth quarter. With about 10 percent of companies in the S&P 500 posting results, the reports have been strong.After the S&P 500 rose 2.9 percent in the week through Friday, it is up 13.6 percent from its Dec. 24 low. The stock index ended trading on Friday just below its 2018 starting point.However, earnings reports reflect only what happened in the past. When it comes to how they will do in 2019, some large businesses have cautioned that they don’t have a clear view.Ford recently warned that the trade war and Britain’s impending exit from the European Union made it impossible to offer investors a forecast. The homebuilder Lennar did the same, blaming weakness and uncertainty in the housing market.Broad surveys of sentiment also suggest reason for worry. On Friday, the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to the lowest point of the Trump presidency and well below forecasters’ expectations. Earlier in the week, a report from the Fed showed that, through early January, executives and economists had become less optimistic for a host of reasons, including trade and political uncertainty and swings in the financial markets.The data in that report came before the government shutdown had stretched to nearly a month. Now the longest in United States history, the closing will start to take a toll. The latest estimates from the White House’s own Council of Economic Advisers suggest that the shutdown has already knocked almost half a percentage point off the economy’s growth rate, though that drag should end once the government reopens.The shutdown is affecting some large businesses already. On Tuesday, Delta Air Lines cautioned that reduced travel by government officials and contractors would hurt its sales growth, at a rate of about $25 million a month. JPMorgan Chase executives noted that if the Securities and Exchange Commission — currently closed except for emergency matters — was not able to give approvals for stock market share offerings, and mergers went unapproved by other government agencies, it could cut fee revenue for its investment banking operations.Profits at American companies may be hurt by the United States’ trade war with China. Evidence that it is slowing global growth mounted this past week, with Germany reporting its slowest annual growth rate since 2013 and China saying that exports fell last month.Companies in the S&P 500 generate 37 percent of their sales, on average, from markets outside the United States, according to the data provider FactSet, and businesses that have increased their exposure to global economies now look vulnerable.But for the most part, stock investors have shrugged off these concerns in January, now that they see the Fed as less eager to raise rates.The Fed had spooked investors as recently as Dec. 19, when it raised interest rates, and its chairman, Mr. Powell, said he didn’t see a need for the central bank to change the way it has been slowly selling off the bonds it bought to bolster the economy over the last decade. The stock market slid 6 percent in the days afterward.“Clearly the market was skittish about, primarily, the Fed,” said Alicia Levine, chief strategist at BNY Mellon Investment Management. “It sounded like the Fed was on autopilot.”By Jan. 4, Mr. Powell’s comments had a different tone. Speaking at a public panel discussion, he made a point of emphasizing the Fed’s ability to be patient with further interest rate increases, given that inflation remains low.“We’re listening with, you know, sensitively to the message that — that markets are sending,” Mr. Powell said. “And we’re going to be taking those downside risks into account as we make policy going forward.”Within days, other central bank officials repeated the sentiment, and the Fed published the details of its December meeting, which showed that many of its policymakers had already reached that conclusion. Stocks had already bounced off their Christmas Eve low when Mr. Powell spoke, but have gained 9.1 percent since.“Their commentary has really done a 180 in a really short period of time,” said David Giroux, chief investment officer of United States equity at asset manager T. Rowe Price.Over the last 30 years, investors have grown accustomed to looking to the Fed for help when the market found itself in a sticky spot. Some trace the phenomenon to the October 1987 market crash. The morning after stocks tumbled roughly 20 percent in a single day, the Fed, under the recently appointed Alan Greenspan, issued a statement indicating that it was ready to support the economic and financial system.Stocks rebounded sharply, helping to embed an expectation into the markets that continues today. And, in the past decade, as stocks have climbed in their longest run of gains ever, the Fed’s decisions to back away from plans to raise interest rates or withdraw economic stimulus have helped keep the bull market alive.Mr. Powell and the Fed seem to have done that again.“I think his comments on Jan. 4 were critical to getting excitement and willingness to invest back into the market,” Ms. Levine said.So many people have John Bogle stories.For some, it is a chance encounter at a conference and a whispered word of advice. For others, it is a formal meeting. In one case, it was an airplane day trip and train ride just to meet the man. Many others never met him, but remember the moment his investment and life philosophies clicked, and suddenly thrust their minds into focus.When Mr. Bogle, the Vanguard founder who popularized the low-cost index mutual fund and helped put billions more dollars in the pockets of millions of people, died on Wednesday at the age of 89, he inspired an outpouring of memories.These are the stories of those who learned from Mr. Bogle, a man so many knew simply as Jack — no last name required.Forthright HumilityWe may never know how many people were able to leave the full-time work force early after following Mr. Bogle’s instructions, but Christopher DeMers was one of them.His salary from working in marketing for Intel and good savings habits helped him retire at 51, but so did a big pivot he made years earlier. After encountering Mr. Bogle’s writing, he went from having all of his money in a single, actively managed mutual fund to diversifying his holdings among many Vanguard index funds. Having worked in technology as that industry’s stocks climbed skyward in the 1990s, Mr. DeMers could have easily talked himself into the delusion that he had some special insight. But he resisted the urge, as Mr. Bogle counseled investors who thought they could outsmart Wall Street. “If I don’t really know what I’m doing,” Mr. DeMers, 63, said, “I’m not going to beat the market in the long run.”Customer SupremacyMellody Hobson was a young executive at the mutual fund company Ariel Investments when her boss, John Rogers, took her on a field trip. They hopped a flight from Chicago to New York, then made their way to the train station to catch John Bogle during the only time he had to spare: a train ride to Philadelphia.Then Mr. Rogers hit Mr. Bogle with his opening line: He really wanted Ms. Hobson to meet a legend like Mr. Bogle because she was going to be president of Ariel by the time she was 30. She was taken aback — it was the first she’d heard such a forecast. (It actually took her until she was 31.) As they chugged through New Jersey, Ms. Hobson came face to face with a financial legend — if nominal competitor — who didn’t care about his own bottom line. “What I felt most of all was that his overriding North Star was caring about the customer,” she said. “And wanting what is best for the customer, that’s what I wanted for Ariel clients.”Patient RealismHarold Evensky was an early recruit in the growing army of financial planners and investment advisers who make money only through the fees that clients pay them directly, no commissions or kickbacks. Many adopted the Vanguard style of investing — low investment costs and simple index funds.That philosophy leads to interesting conversations.“Occasionally, an investor will say, ‘I need X percent return to meet my goals,’” Mr. Evensky said. “While that may be a true statement, market returns will be what they are, not what an investor may believe they need. Jack always reminded us that we needed to be realistic in our expectations.”Mr. Evensky, who met Mr. Bogle several times over the years, spoke to us via email because he was on a cruise ship between Los Angeles and Honolulu. He could afford the trip, he said, in part because of the long-term planning that Mr. Bogle helped inspire.Low Fees (Like, Really Low)Jonathan Clements, who spent two decades at The Wall Street Journal preaching the virtues of low-cost investing, said that it was easy to forget Vanguard’s innovation came in two parts.The first is obvious: Vanguard customers paid less to own their investments than customers at other mutual funds. But people miss the second part: Mr. Bogle set Vanguard up so the company was owned by its funds, which were owned by their shareholders. That kept it from needing to raise fees to satisfy an aggressive profit target.“It was a competitive advantage that nobody else could match,” said Mr. Clements, who met Mr. Bogle perhaps 20 times over the years.And those low fees added up to bigger gains. “Jack fought that battle for decades and decades,” said Mr. Clements, the author of “From Here to Financial Happiness” and editor of humbledollar.com. “And lesser mortals would have given up far earlierTrue Confidence Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection for the Consumer Federation of America, said Mr. Bogle didn’t just bring low-cost investments to the average person — he ran Vanguard for the benefit of investors.“There has been thinly veiled resentment toward Bogle from other mutual fund leaders over the years because of his focus on reducing costs, which was a direct threat to their bottom line,” said Ms. Roper, who met him once, when she was seated next to him at a dinner. “He always cared more about that vision — how the industry should be run — than making friends in the industry. Of course, he was rewarded with a following that was cultlike in its devotion.”The cultists call themselves the Bogleheads, a group of like-minded investors who consider Mr. Bogle the spiritual leader of their financial lives.Moral CompassEach year, the Bogleheads hold a conference. And Christine Benz, the director of personal finance at Morningstar, has interviewed him at each one for the past decade. She called him the conscience of the financial services industry.“His consistent belief that all investors deserve a fair shake was a core principle that I incorporated into my work and shaped my career path,” she said. “You listen to Jack Bogle and you think, ‘I want to be on this guy’s team.’ Whatever he is talking about, this is the right thing to do for people.”So strong was Mr. Bogle’s belief, she said, that it remained firmly instilled in Vanguard long after he had given up control. And once investors convert to his ethos of simplicity and thrift, it’s for life. “Investors come around to Vanguard, and then they never leave,” she said.Entrepreneurial InfluenceJon Stein met Mr. Bogle roughly a decade ago, as a student at Columbia Business School beginning to plot what would become Betterment, a robo-adviser that builds portfolios for customers.Mr. Bogle was on campus to promote a book, and Mr. Stein stood in line for 20 minutes to have his copy signed. Mr. Stein seized the chance to share his best pitch for Betterment, which, in his eyes, would augment Mr. Bogle’s favored index investments with low-cost, automated portfolio advice.Mr. Bogle listened and told Mr. Stein he would help a lot of people. Inside the book, Mr. Bogle wrote, “Stay the course!”“He could have written that in everyone’s book,” said Mr. Stein, chief executive of Betterment, which opened to customers in 2010. “But when he wrote it to me, it meant that we were onto something.”They met again years later at Mr. Bogle’s invitation. Mr. Stein arrived at what looked like a professorial grandparent’s study, and was shocked at how much Mr. Bogle had prepared for their meeting, marking up a stack of materials about Betterment.“We are standing on the shoulders of Jack,” Mr. Stein said. “We would not be here, Betterment would not exist, without his example with the business he started.”  Unapologetic BoldnessWhen Ramit Sethi won a pile of scholarship money for college, he invested some of it in the stock market. He lost big, so he began to learn.“Going through Wall Street is like playing a video game on the hardest level,” he said. “Someone is out to get you, and you don’t even understand it.”He soon stumbled on the writings and speeches of Mr. Bogle. “He spoke in a very plain way,” Mr. Sethi said. “And it was heresy what he was saying, while having the courage to go up against a multibillion-dollar industry.”When Mr. Sethi decided to make a career in advice about the psychology of money and career strategies, he began with his own bold promise in the title of his first book: “I Will Teach You to Be Rich.” “I came out swinging,” he said. It was a New York Times best-seller. And on his book tour, Mr. Bogle received him in his office.Priceless SimplicityCarl Richards writes the Sketch Guy column for The New York Times. He never met Mr. Bogle, but found inspiration in his life’s work. He offered this sketch, and the words below.Making something simple sounds easy. Turns out it’s not.The world is full of simple hacks that are not even worth the hashtag often applied to them, but the real priceless jewels of simplicity, as Mr. Bogle once put it, are uncovered only after toiling about in the maddening nuance of complexity.You consider your options. Listen to counterarguments. Push some edges.My job is to find those jewels of simplicity and share them as sketches. Every once in a while, I get it right. And when I do it’s because John Bogle, he of the elegant and downright simple index fund, gave me permission. I just have to do the work of cutting through the complexity first. Image“Enough” was both the underpinning of indexing and Mr. Bogle's outlook on the way to conduct business and live one’s life.CreditVanguardRecognizing EnoughThe ethos of the financial services industry was far different when Manisha Thakor began her career 25 years ago. “The drumbeat on Wall Street was Gordon Gekko’s painfully memorable mantra of ‘Greed is good,’” said Ms. Thakor, now vice president of financial wellbeing at Brighton Jones, a wealth management firm. “‘More’ was the word of the decade.” And the most powerful lesson she may have learned from Mr. Bogle — whom she had heard speak at a variety of events over the years — was the concept of “enough.” “Enough” was also the title of one of his books, her personal favorite, and the idea underpinning Mr. Bogle’s financial and personal way of life.She called indexing the financial manifestation of the idea. “It’s the notion that accepting your fair share of the market’s return over the long run will do you just fine,” she said.But “enough” was also the mark of man who worked for the benefit of others, rather than himself. “What is often missed when speaking about Jack’s legacy,” she said, “is the way in which this concept of ‘enough’ also shaped his outlook on the way to live a life of meaning, rooted in character.”Stocks came very close to entering a bear market on Christmas Eve, which was a very bad thing. Just about everybody said so.Yet the bear-market label is based on a dangerously unscientific understanding of stock markets. It is dangerous because the designation itself can set off a negative popular narrative that may, in itself, help to fuel a bigger market decline.What happened in December? By Dec. 24, the S&P 500 had fallen 19.8 percent from its peak of September 2018.That was just short of the “traditional” 20 percent slide that many say defines a bear market. It has been strongly up since then, but still remains down substantially from that peak.This tradition doesn’t amount to much, though. I discovered, through digital search, that the practice of using precise definitions for down markets — denoting a “correction” as a 10 percent decline from a peak and a “bear market” as a 20 percent decline — is only a little over 30 years old. It dates back to the mid-1980s.People have spoken loosely of bear markets for more than a hundred years, but they didn’t generally attach a 20 percent definition to them.You might think that the precise identification of a bear market occurred because that 20 percent threshold is intrinsically important — because, for example, there are many times when stock market declines stop at around 20 percent.But, actually, that is not a frequent occurrence. In this century, since 2000, there have been exactly two S&P 500 declines of 20 percent from the market peak — and both of them continued much further, for a net decline of around 50 percent.The first such decline started in 2000. The S&P 500 peaked on March 24 of that year but by March 12, 2001, it had declined 20 percent, and newspapers duly called the situation a bear market.Sometimes the wording suggested that the market was nearing its bottom. Writers didn’t know the decline was over, but evidently felt comfortable joking about it: “Bear Country Good Territory for Stock Hunting,” one headline said.That lighthearted approach was unfortunate because the S&P 500 turned out to be less than halfway through its decline. Ultimately, from its 2000 peak it dropped 49.1 percent through Oct. 9, 2002, before turning up. In real terms, correcting for inflation, that was more than a 50 percent price drop from peak to trough.Then there was the stock market of the Great Recession. The S&P 500 peaked on Oct. 9, 2007. It became a bear market, having declined over 20 percent, on July 11, 2008.There were lots of bear jokes that July, with suggestions that the start of a bear market signaled the end of a process: “Stop Worrying and Learn to Love the Bear,” was the headline of a Wall Street Journal article then. Still, the market kept going down, and bottomed on March 9, 2009, after losing 56.7 percent of its peak value.Those two episodes tell us something important: The start of a bear market doesn’t mean much. From a historical perspective, it is clear that a 20 percent decline does not predict further market movements with any certainty.That may not have been obvious between 1980 and 1990, when the 20 percent definition of a bear market first became established, because there were then two fairly recent 20 percent declines from S&P 500 peaks that did not precede sharper falls.On March 3, 1982, after dropping 21.1 percent from a Nov. 28, 1980, peak and entering what we would now call bear market territory, the S&P 500 fell only 6 percent further. And after a one-day S&P 500 decline of 20.5 percent on Oct. 19, 1987, the index fell only 0.4 percent further to a trough on Dec. 4, 1987.In short, the mere diagnosis of a bear market doesn’t seem to carry much weight for forecasting future price drops.Yet let’s not dismiss the effects of a bear market declaration too soon. Simply by announcing that we have entered a bear market and repeating that claim in the echo chamber of social media, the designation itself might create psychological unease that could make for market volatility.Popular labels carry emotional content. If the declarations of bear markets are charged with negativity, bull markets are fraught with symbolic and patriotic feelings.Consider the “Charging Bull” sculpture, symbolizing the bull market vigor of the financial markets, by Arturo Di Modica. It was first installed in 1989 in the aftermath of the 1987 stock market crash, in Bowling Green in the financial district of New York.The initial installation of the bull statue caught the popular imagination. It was the second time, according to Google Ngrams, that “bull” and “bear” were really widely used (the first time being in the boom of the 1920s and the 1929 crash).The statue may be the second most famous sculpture in New York, after the Statue of Liberty, and tourists flock to take selfies with it. It is a symbol of much more than a market direction. According to the sculptor, the statue also symbolizes  “the strength and power of the American people.” It has become an icon of national identity, patriotism and animal spirits.By the same token, the notion that a bear market may be around the corner can be profoundly disruptive. The near-miss diagnosis of a “bear market” on Christmas Eve 2018 seemed to have struck fear and disorientation in many investors, like an inconclusive lab test for a dread disease, making people vulnerable to more pessimistic feelings.Of course, some people may have interpreted the near miss as a clean bill of health, perhaps even a buying opportunity, depending on circumstances and on the narratives they choose to believe.Narratives matter in the stock market, which is, in many ways, a social-psychological barometer. Whether people are exulting about a bull market or running from a bear, volatile emotions are involved. In the next round in the stock market, we will see who outnumbers whom.The economic uncertainty that roiled the stock market at the end of 2018 hurt Citigroup’s trading business, the bank said on Monday, as a busy week of quarterly earnings reports by the country’s largest banks got off to a shaky start.Citi said it had almost a half-billion dollars less in revenue in the year’s fourth quarter than analysts had expected. The cause of the drop, the bank said, was an unexpectedly sharp decline in revenue from trading in government bonds, foreign currencies and other fixed income products as falling stock prices spooked investors.Investors have fretted for the past several months over the Federal Reserve’s next moves and President Trump’s unpredictable trade tariff announcements. Those concerns are not likely to dissipate, and Citi’s chief executive, Michael Corbat, said they could eventually be more of a drag on the economy than actual policy changes.“Right now, we see the biggest risk in the global economy as one of talking ourselves into a recession,” Mr. Corbat said in a conference call with analysts.Still, Citi warned that monetary and trade policies could affect its performance in the future.The bank’s chief financial officer, John Gerspach, said in a call with reporters that continuing uncertainty about how various countries’ central banks will carry out plans to drain excess cash from the global financial system and about the Trump administration’s protracted trade war with China risked hurting the American economy in the second half of this year or early in 2020.Citi recorded $17.1 billion in revenue for the quarter, compared with the $17.6 billion expected by analysts. The deficit did not indicate major problems for the bank, but it showed that, however vague, investors’ worries about the future can have a measurable impact on a big corporation’s results.[Read more about the key factors affecting stocks and the economy.]Furious activity in the financial markets can sometimes help companies that are close to Wall Street by generating more business for them, but Citi’s clients opted to hold tight as stocks began to drop in September, Mr. Gerspach said.“Clients — investors and corporate clients — waited on the sidelines,” he said.Citi customers, Mr. Gerspach said, did not ask the bank to make many trades on their behalf because they were “waiting for clearer market conditions” that never came.“In December, they got worse,” he said.As a result, Citi’s fixed income trading revenue for the fourth quarter was down 21 percent from the same period a year earlier and 39 percent below the results for the third quarter of 2018.The bank’s performance in other areas was solid. Loans and deposits ticked up again, and Citi said the administration’s corporate tax cuts had been slightly better for its balance sheet than originally estimated. Citi shares were up nearly 4 percent in trading Monday.Citigroup was the first of the country’s major banks to report fourth-quarter results. JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo will issue their reports on Tuesday, with Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley set to do so on Wednesday.When people picture a financial adviser, they typically think of a gray-haired guy who looks like Bernie Madoff, or perhaps a younger man like Leonardo DiCaprio’s character in “The Wolf of Wall Street.” The imagined portrait rarely resembles someone like me, a woman. And that underlying perception is fairly accurate.Roughly less than 20 percent of financial advisers are women, a number that has barely budged for the past two decades despite rising gender equity in other fields. But what has this overwhelmingly male work force accomplished?Banks and brokerage firms consistently rank rock bottom on lists of the most beloved companies and brands — and not by coincidence. A major basis of the distrust is rampant conflicts of interests. In 2015, the Department of Labor estimated that the cost of conflicted investment advice for retirement savers is more than $17 billion per year. Then there are the roots of the financial crisis last decade, several of which can be traced to advisers convincing clients that investing in high-risk subprime mortgages was a safe bet.While neither sex is immune to shoddy behavior, research has shown that female investors are more likely than men to focus on a family’s financial goals over their own absolute investment performance. A study by the Warwick Business School concluded that women outperformed men at investing by 1.8 percent. For one, women avoid “lottery style” trading and are more likely to focus on shares with good track records or on overlooked yet productive funds.Clare Francis, a director at Barclays Smart Investor, agreed with the researchers, who attributed the difference in performance to women’s judiciousness. “The stock market is often portrayed as a high-energy, risky environment,” she said. “But this analysis shows that taking a more long-term view about what to invest in, rather than picking eye-catching and potentially more volatile shares, is actually likely to provide a better return on your money.”In one of my favorite papers, “Boys Will Be Boys,” published in the Quarterly Journal of Economics, Terrance Odean at U.C. Berkeley and Brad Barber at U.C. Davis found that accounts owned by women outperformed those of men because women traded a whopping 69 percent less than men and incurred less in trading costs. Why did the men trade more? The research indicates men regularly exhibit overconfidence in their ability.Christine Lagarde, chairwoman of the International Monetary Fund, was one of many world leaders to remark that the 2008 crisis might have never happened if there had been more women in high-ranking positions to pull the reins on the testosterone-tinged frenzy. Instead, all told, $19.2 trillion of household wealth was lost in America alone.As a result, finance in general, and the financial advice field in particular, continues to be viewed as an industry plagued with slick con artists. And it’s a shame because as much as we may trust our best friends and close relatives, we rarely disclose to them that most private and sensitive aspect of our personal information: the state of our money. That discretion is instead placed with your financial adviser, who ideally is one of the good guys (or gals) in your life.He listens first. You can calculate to the penny how much you paid for his services last year. His company adheres to the fiduciary standard of putting clients’ interests first. Your financial plan does not conveniently lean on products that happen to pay him a hefty sales commission. Usually, you’re the one calling back, because he’s anticipating your needs before they arise.Unfortunately, far too often, the opposite is true. I’ve heard and seen horror stories from the front lines: the guy who retires a couple of years after acquiring your business and hands you off to his son-in-law or a junior broker who just left business school. The mansplainer who takes only the husband seriously and barely lets a widow get a word in as he rejiggers her estate. Or the one who scales back his hours to two days a week but doesn’t bother to tell you because he has collected enough clients to fund a perpetual state of semiretirement — logging enough days with his second wife down in Florida to claim residency and avoid state income tax.While gendering any ability or trait can make people uncomfortable in these forward-thinking times, which sex seems better equipped to help families nurture and protect their nest egg?The gender gap in finance looks increasingly like not only an ethical quandary but also a financial blow to millions of households. And its persistence stems from both explicit historical exclusion and a self-selecting process, in which the crowd most attracted to finance’s clubby reputation pushes hardest to get in, then feels most at ease once there, perpetuating the reality.Two generations ago, when newspapers still ran gender-segregated ads, there were virtually no women on Wall Street aside from the secretaries. But once women were grudgingly welcomed to the business world, Wall Street was not their first choice. Male brokers largely worked for commissions alone — an “eat what you kill” mentality that did not appeal to women. Instead, professional women gravitated to stable sources of income in fields like law, education or medicine.Those divides have a way of calcifying. The Chartered Financial Analyst Institute — the premier global association for investment professionals — surveyed its members in 2016 and found that 83 percent of women and 80 percent of men chose their career before age 25. Only 18 percent of its members are women.The public doesn’t perceive brokers as loyal stewards of their clients and neither do enough young women considering career options. First, they’ll need to see it to believe it.Informal mentorship is great, but women need institutional advocacy, not just someone who is willing to grab a cup of coffee and chat. Firms should also take a look at their investment committee members and client-facing advisers. If they’re mainly men, there’s a problem.Harvard’s Kennedy School found the use of blind auditions for symphony orchestras increased the likelihood of female musicians’ being selected by as much as 30 percent — to the shock of many conductors who did not believe they were biased. The percent of female musicians in the five highest-ranked orchestras in the nation increased by 15 percent over a 23-year period. Similarly innovative measures might be necessary to bring about change in the business world.Whatever the paths taken, the future of finance should be female. It wouldn’t just be more fair. If the years of data are any indication, it’s a future in which all of us would make more money. Find me a good argument against that.Blair duQuesnay (@BlairHduQuesnay), an investment adviser for Ritholtz Wealth Management, is the author of the personal finance blog The Belle Curve. John C. Bogle, who founded the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies in 1974 and built it into a giant mutual fund company, with $4.9 trillion in assets under management today, died on Wednesday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 89.His personal assistant, Michael Nolan, said the cause was esophageal cancer. Mr. Bogle, who had struggled with a congenital heart defect and had several heart attacks, received a heart transplant in 1996.Mr. Bogle built Vanguard, which is based in Malvern, Pa., on a cornerstone belief that was anathema to most mutual fund companies: that over the long term, most investment managers cannot outperform the broad market averages. He popularized and became the leading proponent of indexing, the practice of structuring an investment portfolio to mirror the performance of a market yardstick, like the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index.“Indexing was the purview of institutional investors, but Jack Bogle came up with the consumer version,” said Daniel P. Wiener, the editor of The Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, a newsletter and website that has tracked the company for decades. “He made people aware of expenses, and told them that costs come right out of the bottom line.”But Mr. Bogle became a harsh critic of the mutual fund industry in later years. In the second half of the 1990s, he said, stock market investors were spoiled by average annual returns of more than 20 percent per year and, as a result, cared too little about the high expenses they were paying to mutual fund managers for those managers’ presumed expertise at picking stocks. Mutual fund companies, he said, were all but immoral for accepting such fees.“My ideas are very simple,” he told the financial columnist Jeff Sommer of The New York Times in 2012. “In investing, you get what you  don’t pay for. Costs matter. So intelligent investors will use low-cost index funds to build a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds, and they will stay the course. And they won’t be foolish enough to think that they can consistently outsmart the market.”In recent years it has been hard to argue with that. Since 1984, less than half of the actively managed mutual funds that invest in a broad array of American stocks have outperformed the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, one of the world’s largest, with more than $441 billion in assets under management, according to Vanguard.Vanguard’s advantage came from the unusual corporate structure that Mr. Bogle adopted. Vanguard managed its indexed mutual funds at cost, charging investors fees that were far lower than those of virtually all of its rivals.Mr. Bogle also went a step further in differentiating Vanguard from other companies that sponsor mutual funds. In contrast to a management company, which in most cases controls the fund complex and provides all the investment, administrative and marketing services required in its operations, Vanguard is more like a mutual insurer, owned by investors in the funds, which employ their own officers and staff. Those employees are responsible to the funds’ directors.Mr. Bogle argued that Vanguard funds were thus completely independent of their advisers and operated solely in the interests of shareholders — able to monitor investment results objectively, negotiate advisory fees at “arm’s length” and change advisers if need be.“John Bogle has changed a basic industry in the optimal direction,” Paul A. Samuelson, the 1970 Nobel laureate in economics, wrote in a foreword to “Bogle on Mutual Funds” (1993). “Of very few this can be said.”The superior performance of the Vanguard funds attracted investors and assets in droves. In the last three years of the 1990s, Vanguard received more new money from investors than the next three largest fund companies combined.Vanguard’s consistent growth produced riches for Mr. Bogle, but not to the extent that another ownership structure might have done. For example, Edward C. Johnson III, the chairman of Fidelity Investments, has a net worth of $7.4 billion, according to Forbes. Mr. Bogle’s net worth was generally estimated at $80 million last year.Most fund companies spend huge sums to attract new customers. But Mr. Bogle eschewed the product- and marketing-driven thinking of much of the industry that has spread with the boom in mutual fund sales this decade.“We’re never allowed to use the word ‘product,’” he told an interviewer in 1995. “It sounds like toothpaste and beer.”His reputation as a tightwad was well earned. At breakfast with a reporter in 1993, at a suburban Philadelphia restaurant near Vanguard’s headquarters, Mr. Bogle figured out that he would beat the $5.95 cost of the buffet by ordering from the menu. If he had an early-morning meeting in New York, he would take the early Amtrak Metroliner shuttle rather than pay for a hotel room in Manhattan.Image“John Bogle has changed a basic industry in the optimal direction,” the Nobel laureate Paul A. Samuelson wrote in a foreword to Mr. Bogle’s book “Bogle on Mutual Funds,” published in 1993.Mr. Bogle readily took swipes at the press for lauding fund managers who temporarily got a hot hand, and for focusing heavily on a fund’s quarterly performance. Even a fund manager’s long-term record is not an accurate predictor of future performance, he said.It was that combative nature that had led him to start Vanguard in the first place.After graduating magna cum laude from Princeton in 1951 with an economics degree, Mr. Bogle was hired by Walter L. Morgan, founder of the Wellington Fund, a Philadelphia-based fund management company. Mr. Morgan had read Mr. Bogle’s senior thesis on mutual funds.While working his way up at Wellington, Mr. Bogle persuaded Mr. Morgan to introduce a new all-equity fund, called the Windsor Fund, to complement Wellington, which invested in both stocks and bonds.Mr. Bogle was named president of Wellington in 1967, and soon thereafter it merged with the Boston investment company Thorndike, Doran, Paine & Lewis. Several years later, a management dispute with the principals of the new company led Mr. Bogle to depart; he founded Vanguard in 1974 to handle the administrative functions of the mutual funds overseen by Wellington Management.Two years later, Mr. Bogle founded the First Index Investment Trust, later called the Vanguard Index Trust, now known as the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, the first index fund for individual investors. The next year he again broke from industry practice, selling mutual funds directly to investors rather than through brokers, and thus eliminating the sales fees of up to 9 percent that funds typically charged.“Our challenge at the time was to build, out of the ashes of a major corporate conflict, a new and better way of running a mutual fund complex,” Mr. Bogle said in 1985.He officially stepped down as chief executive of Vanguard in January 1996 and remained as chairman until the end of 1999. Tim Buckley is the current chief executive.Mr. Bogle’s retirement did not come easily. After giving up the chief executive title to his handpicked successor, John J. Brennan, Mr. Bogle openly disagreed with several of Mr. Brennan’s decisions. A rift developed between them, which contributed to Mr. Bogle’s failure to persuade Vanguard’s board of directors to allow him to stay on past the traditional retirement age of 70.“I thought there would be an exception for the company’s founder,” he said in 2012. Vanguard veterans say that Mr. Bogle and Mr. Brennan barely spoke, if at all, in the years afterward.Mr. Bogle left the Vanguard board and set up the Bogle Financial Markets Research Center, a financial research institute, in order, he said, to “let the controversy die away in a gracious way.”Mr. Brennan was succeeded by F. William McNabb III, who told Mr. Sommer in 2012 that people at Vanguard “revere Jack Bogle.”John Clifton Bogle was born in Montclair, N.J., on May 8, 1929. A twin brother, David, died in 1994.Mr. Bogle graduated from Blair Academy in Blairstown, N.J., and, in 1951, from Princeton; he was a scholarship student at both.Mr. Bogle was treated for arrythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, a congenital heart defect, for more than 30 years, and had at least six heart attacks, the first in 1960. After his heart transplant in 1996, he returned to good enough health that he was able to play squash daily.Mr. Bogle served on the board of the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, from 1969 to 1974, and as its chairman from 1969 to 1970. In 1991, he was named by the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Richard C. Breeden, to the Market Oversight and Financial Services Advisory Committee.In addition to “Bogle on Mutual Funds,” his other books include “Common Sense on Mutual Funds” (1999) and “The Clash of the Cultures: Investment vs. Speculation” (2012).Mr. Bogle married Eve Sherrerd in 1956. She survives him, as do a brother, William Yates Bogle III; four daughters, Barbara Bogle Renninger, Jean Bogle, Nancy Bogle St. John and Sandra Bogle Marucci; two sons, John Jr. and Andrew; 12 grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.Mr. Bogle regularly gave half his salary to charities.“My only regret about money,” he said in 2012, “is that I don’t have more to give away.”Dr. John Mendelsohn, who led the prestigious University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center through an era of substantial growth, and who, as a scientist, helped pioneer a new type of cancer therapy, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Houston. He was 82.His death was confirmed by MD Anderson, which said the cause was glioblastoma, an aggressive form of brain cancer.Dr. Mendelsohn was the cancer center’s third president, serving from 1996 to 2011, a period in which MD Anderson rose in prominence to be considered the nation’s top cancer hospital. At the same time, its annual revenues quadrupled, to $3.1 billion.“He was an extraordinary scientist, he was a compassionate individual, he was a strategic thinker, and he was able to bring all of those capabilities to bear as an exceptional leader of MD Anderson,” Dr. Peter Pisters, the center’s president, said in a telephone interview.Dr. Mendelsohn began his career as a researcher. He made his name in the 1980s at the University of California, San Diego, where he developed cetuximab, the first so-called targeted cancer therapy, which blocks receptors on cancer cells to halt their growth. The drug was approved by the federal government in 2004 and is sold by Eli Lilly as Erbitux, for the treatment of colorectal, head and neck cancers.Erbitux and other targeted therapies were seen as breakthroughs for cancer patients because, unlike older chemotherapy drugs, which typically kill all rapidly dividing cells, targeted treatments go after the proteins that help cancer cells grow and survive.John Mendelsohn was born in Cincinnati on Aug. 31, 1936, the son of Joe and Sarah (Feibel) Mendelsohn. After graduating from Walnut Hills High School in Cincinnati, he studied at Harvard, earning his undergraduate degree in biochemical sciences in 1958.He married Anne Charles, a research chemist at Polaroid, in 1962.After a year in Scotland as a Fulbright scholar at the University of Glasgow, Dr. Mendelsohn attended Harvard Medical School, earning his degree in 1963. Residency training at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston followed, as did fellowships at the National Institutes of Health and at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis.In 1970, Dr. Mendelsohn joined the U.C. San Diego School of Medicine, where, in addition to helping to develop Erbitux, he became the founding director of the institution’s cancer center.He left San Diego in 1985 to become chairman of the department of medicine at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York, and spent more than a decade there until he took the job as president of MD Anderson in 1996.Dr. Pisters said that when Dr. Mendelsohn arrived in Houston, MD Anderson did not have the physical size or reputation it has today. But, he added, “It did have what he could see as remarkable potential.”Dr. Mendelsohn’s career was not without controversy. In 2002, he was criticized as having failed to identify problems as a board member at two troubled companies, the energy giant Enron and the biotech company ImClone Systems.In the case of Enron, Dr. Mendelsohn served on the board’s audit committee despite having little financial experience; the company, which filed for bankruptcy in 2001, was later found to have used a series of questionable accounting practices to make it seem more profitable than it was.The ImClone scandal involved allegations of insider trading after the company’s stock plummeted in the wake of news in late 2001 that its lead drug, Erbitux, the drug Dr. Mendelsohn had developed, had not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The company’s founder, Samuel D. Waksal, was arrested on charges of insider trading after prosecutors said he told friends and family to sell their stock. (The lifestyle maven Martha Stewart was famously ensnared in that scandal.)Dr. Mendelsohn was not accused of wrongdoing in either case. But he came under scrutiny at ImClone in particular because he held dual roles as a member of the company’s board and as a paid scientific consultant. Lilly acquired ImClone in 2008.Dr. Mendelsohn’s role in the development of Erbitux also came into question in 2002, after The Washington Post reported that patients in a clinical trial of Erbitux at MD Anderson had not been informed that, as head of the cancer center, Dr. Mendelsohn held a financial stake in the drug’s success. The hospital changed its policies to ensure that patients were told of such conflicts.Dr. Mendelsohn survived the scandals, bolstered in part by the support of powerful Houston figures like former President George H. W. Bush, who was an enthusiastic backer of MD Anderson.Indeed, Dr. Mendelsohn’s ability to befriend all types of people, from patients and fellow researchers to the leaders of Houston society, helped elevate MD Anderson’s profile. His wife, Anne C. Mendelsohn — who became an educator and a producer of science documentary films — was a key partner, joining him in his social and philanthropic work.“They raised billions of dollars together,” said Jeffrey Mendelsohn, the middle of the Mendelsohns’ three sons. “As their lives evolved and my father got more and more prominent positions, she dedicated more and more of her life to working with him.”During Dr. Mendelsohn’s last five years as president, MD Anderson was recognized as the top cancer center in the country by U.S. News & World Report, surpassing Memorial Sloan Kettering.In a telephone interview, Dr. Mendelsohn’s sons — the two others are Andrew and Eric — credited his success to a ravenous curiosity that did not stop at the boundaries of science or medicine. He was an enthusiastic traveler, they said, and loved good meals, opera and all kinds of books.Andrew Mendelsohn, his eldest son, recalled that when he went to college, his father would quiz him on the courses he was taking. The next time he returned home, “there would be six books on the subject, full of underlines,” he said.“He was always trying to distill the essence of a book or a person or a moment,” he added.Besides his wife and sons, Dr. Mendelsohn is survived by eight grandchildren.Ford Motor and Volkswagen have outlined what the companies hope will become a broad alliance — one that will hasten development of electric and self-driving cars and eventually cut costs.But the initial step announced Tuesday, a plan to cooperate on pickup trucks and delivery vans, will do little to address the troubles both automakers face now. It also falls short of the detailed restructuring plan from Ford that investors have been waiting to see for more than a year.On the fringes of the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Ford said it would develop and manufacture a compact pickup truck that the two companies may sell under their own names in South America, Africa and Europe. The truck will be based on the new Ford Ranger, which goes on sale in the next few weeks. Ford will also produce a large delivery van and Volkswagen a compact van, both primarily for Europe.Ford expects those projects to save about $500 million a year, but not until after the vehicles are introduced in 2023.“We are forecasting the benefits at the end of our five-year period, so it is the 2023-2024 time frame mostly that the synergies start to accrue,” Ford’s chief executive, Jim Hackett, said in a conference call.The companies said they were continuing to discuss ways to cooperate in the development of electric vehicles and self-driving technology, but stopped short of detailing how they might do that.“It just makes sense to share investment, pool innovation capabilities and create scale effects in clearly defined areas,” said Volkswagen’s chief executive, Herbert Diess. “And that’s what we are going to do together with Ford.”Rebecca Lindland, an independent auto consultant, said that many big auto alliances failed, but that those that prospered tended to start out small and expand slowly.“VW and Ford have a nice synergy with their customer base, so this limited partnership could be successful,” she said.Ford has invested more than $1 billion in a bid to produce a driverless vehicle that can transport passengers or deliver goods. It is also spending $11 billion to develop more than three dozen electric or hybrid models that it plans to roll out over the next five years.Volkswagen, too, is developing a string of electric cars. On Monday, the company said it would spend $800 million to build a plant next to its existing factory in Chattanooga, Tenn. It will assemble a battery-powered sport utility vehicle that the company has called the ID Crozz.Volkswagen’s push into electric vehicles began after its diesel scandal, in which it rigged diesel cars with software to cheat on emissions tests. To settle lawsuits in the United States, it agreed to buy back diesel cars from owners and paid a fine of $4.3 billion. It also promised to introduce a range of electric vehicles in the United States, and has funded a company that is installing charging stations in cities around the country.But both companies have more immediate issues: a suddenly slumping auto market in China, slow growth and slim margins in Europe, and the need to develop technologies to meet the stringent emissions regulations that Europe will phase in.Ford’s issues go beyond those challenges. Unlike General Motors, whose stock jumped last week when it raised its financial guidance, Ford is expected to show a decline from a year earlier when it releases its fourth-quarter earnings next week. While the company remains solidly profitable in North America, it is losing or barely making money in the rest of the world.Mr. Hackett, who was named chief executive almost two years ago to revitalize Ford, has announced plans to cut jobs, but has not yet outlined a comprehensive turnaround strategy — something many analysts expected within months of his taking the top job.“Ford continues to frustrate investors by delivering piecemeal information on its future plans,” said Philippe Houchois, an analyst at Jefferies Securities. “We continue to see tremendous scope for improving Ford’s performance through its own restructuring and more extensive cooperation with VW.”Ford’s stock has been trading at levels last seen during the recession a decade ago. On Tuesday, its shares fell 1.7 percent to $8.84.WASHINGTON — As a critical round of talks with China kicks off next week, the Trump administration is increasingly pessimistic that Beijing will make the kind of deep structural changes to its economy that the United States wants as part of a comprehensive trade agreement, according to officials involved with the talks.The United States is now weighing whether large Chinese purchases of American goods and more modest economic changes will be enough for a deal to end a damaging trade war between the two nations and help calm volatile markets.A Chinese delegation led by Liu He, China’s vice premier, will meet with Robert Lighthizer, the Trump administration’s top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, on Jan. 30 and 31. The two countries are racing to strike an agreement by March 2, a deadline set by President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China.If no deal is reached by that date, Mr. Trump has said the United States will raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods.Mr. Trump has focused on narrowing the trade gap between what the United States imports from China and what it exports, but the administration is also pressuring Beijing to scale back subsidies of state-owned enterprises, drastically open its markets to foreign investment and end its longstanding practice of forcing American companies to hand over trade secrets.For years, American companies, including technology firms and automakers, have been clamoring for such changes as they try to gain access to China’s growing market. But many are beginning to fear that if the continuing brinkmanship between the world’s two largest economies is not resolved, American companies will be left in an even worse position.“I would have a hard time, especially considering what’s happening in Washington, believing that this will be wrapped up in a little bow by March,” said Charles Freeman, senior vice president for Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.Markets have been particularly sensitive to the state of the talks, with stocks gyrating as whispers of progress or setbacks trickle out.Stock prices in the United States spiked last week after a Wall Street Journal report suggested that Mr. Mnuchin had recommended the removal of some tariffs to hasten a deal. They jumped again after Bloomberg News reported that China had offered to buy $1 trillion of American goods over the next six years.Over the weekend, Mr. Trump expressed hope that a deal could be reached but dismissed suggestions that the United States would roll back tariffs in advance of concessions from China.“We have taken in tremendous amounts of money in the United States because of the sanctions,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Saturday, apparently confusing sanctions and tariffs. “If we make a deal, certainly we wouldn’t have sanctions.”In a tweet on Monday evening, Mr. Trump once again suggested that the United States had the upper hand in negotiations, saying China’s slowing economy should hasten a trade deal.“China posts slowest economic numbers since 1990 due to U.S. trade tensions and new policies,” the president said. “Makes so much sense for China to finally do a Real Deal, and stop playing around!”Despite Mr. Trump’s optimism about reaching a deal, others in the administration and on Capitol Hill have been more circumspect.“This is an ongoing process with the Chinese that is nowhere near completion,” a Treasury spokesman said, rebutting the suggestion that Mr. Mnuchin had recommended rolling back tariffs.Last week, Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said that Mr. Lighthizer, who is leading the talks, had told him there had been no progress on the “structural” changes that the administration sought from China.Mr. Lighthizer, a longtime China hawk, has been pushing to ensure that China fulfills promises that Mr. Xi made to Mr. Trump during a meeting in Buenos Aires last year. Mr. Lighthizer has expressed concern to colleagues and business groups that Mr. Trump could accept a watered-down deal that reduces the trade deficit but offers only symbolic structural changes to help end the trade war and lift the stock market.In an interview on the Fox Business Network on Friday, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, said he was hopeful that a deal would be reached but acknowledged that many details still needed to be determined.“The technology stuff has not been dealt with, the enforcement stuff has not been dealt with,” Mr. Kudlow said. “The commodity stuff and the tariff rates, we’re moving on the right track.”To those who see the negotiations as the best opportunity to rebalance the trade relationship between Washington and Beijing, the prospect of rolling back tariffs without sweeping concessions by China would fail to achieve Mr. Trump’s goal of ending what he has deemed its unfair trade practices.“He wants to brag about what he got, not stop tariffs and be able to brag about nothing,” said Derek Scissors, a China expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.A slimmed-down deal could also open Mr. Trump up to criticism from Democrats, who in some cases are more aligned with the president’s aggressive approach to pressuring China than many Republicans.“Anything less than a full effort to secure a fundamental reset of the U.S.-China trade relationship is a betrayal of the American economy and the future of American workers, industry, consumers and innovators,” said Representative Richard Neal of Massachusetts, the Democratic chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. “The Trump administration needs to stiffen its spine and get tough in these China talks.”Trump administration officials have been debating whether they can push more tariffs on China without facing significant repercussions. China’s economy is already slowing, in part because of the tariffs, and any further weakening could hurt global economic growth and the United States economy, which is itself showing signs of cooling.Mr. Mnuchin has been particularly interested in how big a role America’s trade actions are playing in China’s recent economic weakness.Trump administration officials have debated whether they should follow through with plans to raise tariffs to 25 percent, from 10 percent, on March 2 if China does not maintain the promises Mr. Xi made to Mr. Trump, like accelerating purchases of American goods and making structural changes to its economy.Progress over the next six weeks could result in an extension of the March 2 deadline, even if a final deal is not reached, or some tariff relief as a reward for initial changes that China says it is willing to make. But the decision will ultimately rest with Mr. Trump.One question bedeviling the talks is how to enforce any trade agreement with China, given its opaque business environment and largely managed economy. One option that administration officials have considered is “snapback” tariffs, which would be reimposed if China appears to be reneging on its commitments.Mr. Trump has pointed to China’s economic weakness as a reason it should acquiesce to his country’s trade demands. But the trade war is also taking a toll on the United States economy, and the monthlong shutdown could lead to an economic contraction if it continues to drag on.While business are hoping for greater access to China’s markets, the strategy of using tariffs as a negotiating tool has dented business confidence. According to a survey of 277 American companies by S&P Global this month, 43 percent said they had postponed investment because of the China tariffs.Michael Pillsbury, a China scholar at the Hudson Institute who advises the administration, said that there were several important unknowns about the trade discussions that suggested a comprehensive deal was not near.It remains unclear if there is a working text of a deal that the two countries are using to hash out an agreement. And it is unclear whether China will pressure the Trump administration to drop its efforts to extradite the chief financial officer of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications company. The executive was arrested in Canada last year as part of a broader agreement. The complicated internal debates taking place within China’s government also make it difficult to predict its willingness to make concessions.“We are a long way to a deal,” Mr. Pillsbury said. “Much work remains to be done, especially untangling the debate in China and pressure on Xi Jinping.”But Mr. Trump is also under pressure and the window for him to use market-rattling tariffs as leverage is likely to shrink as his re-election campaign heats up next year.“The damage to U.S. business, consumers and exporters is real and ongoing,” Scott Lincicome, a trade lawyer and scholar at the Cato Institute, said, noting that the risks of this approach only increased if negotiations with China dragged into 2020. “If you’re the Chinese, delay is your best friend.”Shanghai will develop into a world-leading financial hub in line with China’s economic power and the renminbi’s international standing by 2020, according to an action plan released by central regulators.Approved by the State Council, eight central regulatory bodies led by the People’s Bank of China, the central bank, issued the plan, which aims for the municipality to establish itself as a global financial market leader and a go-to market for renminbi-based trading by 2020. A legal, innovative, highly efficient, transparent and open financial system is expected to be in place by that time.Xu Zhong, director-general of the PBOC’s research bureau, said the release of the action plan indicates that Shanghai has entered into the final stage before becoming a global financial hub.Wu Qing, Shanghai’s vice-mayor, said the city should focus on the development of six sectors －asset management, cross-border investment and financing, financial technology, insurance, renminbi asset pricing and financial risk management.The introduction of a science and technology innovation board on the Shanghai Stock Exchange will become an important driver to build the city into a global financial center and provide more opportunities for investors, said Yan Bojin, director of the Shanghai bureau of the China Securities Regulatory Commission.President Xi Jinping made the announcement in early November to the proposed new board in Shanghai. No estimated launch date has been provided.Yan said that the CSRC will give top priority to launching the new board and the central regulator will soon solicit public opinions on the proposal.Since the launch in September 2013 of the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, the FTZ has put forth 110 financial innovation policies, among which 20 have been promoted nationwide.Xi also announced in November a proposed expansion of the FTZ. Jin Penghui, deputy director of the PBOC’s Shanghai head office, said that the expanded area will promote further financial reforms in the FTZ as it will shoulder special economic functions in the future. The focus will be centered on facilitating trade and investment and providing more convenience to FTZ companies in terms of foreign exchange management.In 2018, a global financial center index rating compiled by British independent think tank Z/Yen said Shanghai ranked fifth worldwide, one position higher from that in 2017.Total trading volume in the Shanghai financial market exceeded 1.645 quadrillion yuan ($242 trillion) in 2018, up 15.2 percent from a year earlier. There were 1,605 registered financial institutions in Shanghai by 2018, among which 68 were registered last year.According to the city’s statistics bureau, the added value of Shanghai’s financial industry increased 5.7 percent year-on-year to reach 578.2 billion yuan in 2018. The industry contributed about 17.7 percent of the city’s total G.D.P. last year.Shi JingLOS ANGELES — Pacific Gas and Electric Company, with billions of dollars of potential wildfire liabilities pushing it toward bankruptcy, has been cleared of responsibility for one giant 2017 fire in Northern California, brightening its financial outlook.The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said on Thursday that private electrical equipment at a home was responsible for starting the Tubbs Fire in Sonoma County in October 2017. The exact cause could not be determined, however, because much of the equipment was destroyed in the fire, which eventually killed 22 people and destroyed over 5,600 buildings.After the department made the announcement, PG&E’s stock soared, closing up 75 percent on Thursday at $13.95. Even so, the shares remain much lower than where they were before last November, when a new wave of devastating fires swept through the utility’s vast service territory.PG&E, facing an estimated $30 billion of liability for fires in 2017 and 2018, said last week that it planned to seek bankruptcy protection by the end of the month. California officials say the company’s equipment caused at least 17 of 21 major 2017 wildfires in the state.Investors and government officials have cast doubt on the company’s rationale for a bankruptcy filing. PG&E has enough money on hand to meet day-to-day expenses and its wildfire liability has not been definitively established, these people have said.Financial analysts scrambled on Thursday to figure out the change in PG&E’s liability as a result of the state’s determination about the Tubbs Fire. That overall liability could now be about $8 billion lower, according to one financial research firm, CreditSights.Yet it was not clear whether the news changed the company’s bankruptcy calculations.Gov. Gavin Newsom said that he was surprised by the findings of the state’s fire investigators and that he had spoken to PG&E officials about them. But he said he was not sure whether the news would prompt the company to shift gears.“This obviously begs the question, now what?” Mr. Newsom said. “Do we anticipate that PG&E will move forward as they have previewed? That is an open-ended question. That is a question for PG&E.”For its part, PG&E said it still faced untold financial exposure without making clear whether it would still file for bankruptcy.“The devastating and unprecedented wildfires of 2017 and 2018 have had a profound impact on our customers, employees and communities,” the utility said. “Regardless of today’s announcement, PG&E still faces extensive litigation, significant potential liabilities and a deteriorating financial situation, which was further impaired by the recent credit agency downgrades to below investment grade.”At least one of the company’s investors, the New York-based hedge fund BlueMountain Capital, said PG&E ought to reconsider a bankruptcy filing in light of the state’s conclusions about the Tubbs Fire. The hedge fund said earlier on Thursday that it would seek to replace PG&E’s board, which it accused of failing the company’s shareholders, customers and employees.“The news from CalFire that PG&E did not cause the devastating 2017 Tubbs Fire is yet another example of why the company shouldn’t be rushing to file for bankruptcy, which would be totally unnecessary and bad for all stakeholders,” Omar Vaishnavi, head of fundamental credit at BlueMountain Capital, said in a statement.Investors and analysts who are skeptical that the company needs bankruptcy argue that PG&E has access to plenty of assets it could borrow against or sell to meet its wildfire liabilities, including its headquarters building in San Francisco and its gas business. Selling such assets would still leave the company as the primary electricity utility to much of Northern and Central California.Stocks of companies that are on the verge of filing for bankruptcy often trade for pennies because investors believe that shareholders will get wiped out in a court-ordered reorganization. The Thursday rally in PG&E’s stock could further undermine the case for a bankruptcy. The company’s stock outstanding was worth more than $7 billion at Thursday’s closing price.But PG&E’s board might still decide to seek bankruptcy because it could conclude that is the most expedient way to resolve the thousands of wildfire claims against the utility. A filing could also protect the company in case its liabilities turn out to be much higher than current estimates.California officials have not yet determined the cause of the November 2018 Camp Fire, the state’s most devastating. That wildfire killed at least 86 people and destroyed the town of Paradise. It could be months more before investigators reach a conclusion about its cause. Mr. Newsom said the state expected to determine the cause of the Camp Fire within the first half of the year.Some legal experts said the Tubbs Fire decision probably would not stop the company from filing for bankruptcy.“This should not change much,” G. Marcus Cole, a law professor at Stanford, wrote in an email. “If PG&E files for bankruptcy, it is not because of the crushing weight of liability. Instead, it will be for administrative efficiency reasons. They still face hundreds of claims from hundreds of plaintiffs.”Investors also have to consider the possibility that PG&E still faces large, hard-to-quantify liabilities. Measures to reduce the risks of wildfires, like trimming trees around power lines and installing insulated wiring, could end up costing the company billions.“PG&E’s numerous regulatory, legislative and credit challenges are largely unchanged and we still expect them to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the next few days,” Jeff Cassella, a vice president and senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in a statement.For wildfire victims, PG&E’s bankruptcy plans could cut both ways. Legal experts say newer claims against the utility could be processed more quickly through one bankruptcy court than through several state courts. But claims related to 2017 fires that are further along in the legal process, especially those that are set to go to trial in September, could be delayed by a bankruptcy filing.Anyone paying attention to financial markets in recent months knew that the Federal Reserve’s management of the economy was perhaps the single most important question on the minds of investors.The Fed, of course, has been raising interest rates, including four increases last year, which unnerved many investors. These days, though, the focus has shifted to what the central bank will do with another tool it previously used to stoke economic growth.As part of its campaign to rescue the economy after the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed bought enormous quantities of bonds issued or guaranteed by the federal government. Now the question is how quickly, and by how much, it will shrink that pile. On Wednesday, the Fed left rates unchanged and signaled that it could slow its bond sales if economic and financial conditions change. Investors cheered, with the S&P 500 rising about 1.5 percent. The index is up nearly 7 percent this year.Once an area of interest for only the most intrepid of Fed watchers, the bond portfolio has started to overshadow more fundamental economic concerns, like China’s slowing economy and the government shutdown. Since last year, the Fed has been reducing its bond stockpile by up to $50 billion a month. Investors increasingly point to the trend to explain the ugly performances of virtually every kind of investment in 2018. Even President Trump weighed in, tweeting in December that the Fed should “Stop with the 50 B’s.”Players in the markets have bestowed the Fed’s bond-shedding policy with its very own nickname: quantitative tightening, or Q.T.So what is quantitative tightening? How is it supposed to work? And how much of an impact is it having on markets? Read on.Before there was Q.T., there was Q.E.The first thing to know is that quantitative tightening is basically the slow unwinding of a series of policies put in place to counter the financial crisis. A decade ago, that crisis nearly pushed the United States into a second Great Depression. Financial markets crashed. Unemployment surged. Economic growth collapsed. By law, the Fed is supposed to fight unemployment. So, when recession rears its head, the central bank steps in, typically by cutting the short-term interest rates it controls. By the end of 2008, it had slashed them essentially to zero. During normal times, short-term interest rates have a strong influence on how much it costs consumers and companies to borrow money. But during the financial crisis, the Fed’s rate cuts barely budged longer-term borrowing rates, which stayed stubbornly high. Investors were so spooked that they refused to put their money into anything other than super-safe, short-term government bonds. The Fed needed to push longer-term interest rates down. With short-term rates at their lowest possible levels, the central bank went looking for new tools. And that is how quantitative easing was born. In early 2009, the Fed started buying immense quantities of bonds — trying to drive their prices up and their rates down. By 2014, the Fed was the proud owner of roughly $2.5 trillion worth of Treasury bonds and more than $1.5 trillion of government-backed mortgage bonds. Did it work?Yes. The Fed’s bond-buying didn’t immediately cure every economic ill brought on by the recession. The United States would limp through nearly a decade of sluggish growth, even as the Fed continued to devour bonds. But the consensus among investors and policymakers is that all of the bond purchases helped push key borrowing rates — such as those for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages and for corporate bonds — to their lowest levels in a generation. That made loans at least a little more affordable and offered some support to the fragile economy. In the stock and bond markets, the power of the Fed’s campaign was even more pronounced. By pumping trillions of dollars into the financial system, quantitative easing propped up the value of stocks, bonds and all sorts of other assets. Few in the markets think it a coincidence that the beginning of Q.E. was also the beginning of the longest bull market in history.Now comes Q.T.A decade later, the economy is in much better shape. Unemployment is at its lowest level in decades. Early data indicates that the economy last year grew at its fastest clip since 2005. Wages are even starting to rise. To the central bank, those rosy economic signs meant it was time to start removing some of the scaffolding it had erected to support the crumbling economy. The Fed started raising interest rates in December 2015. And it has also started to shrink its hoard of bonds. Last year, the Fed’s portfolio declined by more than $350 billion — the sharpest reduction since the crisis. You may have also noticed that the financial markets were battered last year. Almost every type of investment seemed to suffer the same lackluster returns. The S&P 500 was down 6.2 percent. High-quality corporate bonds sank 6.4 percent. United States Treasury bonds generated a paltry 0.9 percent return. A collapse in crude oil prices sent commodities down more than 15 percent. In fact, it was the first time in decades that virtually all major classes of investments suffered in sync, with none posting returns in excess of 5 percent. The concern over Q.T. flared in December. As stock markets swung wildly, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, played down the chance that the central bank would change its approach to its steady bond reductions, which he described as being on “automatic pilot.” The stock market sank about 6 percent in the days after that statement. The Fed’s shrinking bond portfolio isn’t entirely to blame for the carnage of 2018. Plenty of other things had investors worrying: a slowdown in global growth, weakening corporate profits, the trade war with China and the Fed’s rate increases.Economists inside and outside the Fed say the impact last year should have been relatively small. After all, the gradual, recurring bond reductions were set in motion years ago, and should have been incorporated into prices in financial markets.Nevertheless, investors welcomed the Fed’s message on Wednesday that it could change its plans to reduce its bond holdings. The central bank said in a news release that it was “prepared to adjust any of the details for completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments.” In a news conference, Mr. Powell also suggested that the decline of the Fed’s bond holdings could stop sooner and leave the Fed with a larger supply of bonds than previously thought. “Any conversation about the balance sheet that does not use the word autopilot is good,” said Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute.  The colossal disarray over the British government’s plans to leave the European Union comes at an awkward moment for global financial markets.How can anyone in New York hope to make sense of the mess in London when the government in Washington is closed one day, set to re-open the next and in danger of shutting down again soon?Yet financial markets put a price on just about anything, and they don’t stop functioning when governments do. Even when a projected outcome is gruesome or improbable, some traders will try to make a wager on it. Bets on “Brexit” — Britain’s exit from the European Union — and the effects of the government shutdown in this country are well underway.Whether these bets are humane or prudent is another question. But the shifting odds on Brexit have moved stock, bond and foreign exchange markets, especially in the past two weeks, as the government of Prime Minister Theresa May has flirted with disaster.Events in London have grabbed strategists’ attention. In a note to clients on Jan. 16, Capital Economics, a research group in London, said it placed a 70 percent probability on this broad outcome: that Britain finds a way to “fudge and delay” its exit from the European Union past the current March 29 deadline.If that delay becomes certain, or just more likely than it seems now, Capital Economics said, the value of the British pound could be expected to rise. At the same time, British stocks, which have generally lagged behind the S&P 500 since the Brexit referendum in 2016, would probably surge, Capital Economics said.Abrupt movements in foreign exchange markets have already occurred. The pound fell sharply on Jan. 15, when Parliament dealt Mrs. May a crushing defeat. By the largest margin ever for a major issue, lawmakers rejected the Brexit agreement she had spent months negotiating with the European Union.But the next day Mrs. May survived a no-confidence vote, not by acclamation but by default: The opposition Labour Party simply could not muster enough votes to defeat her. She has soldiered on, as the Brexit deadline draws ever closer. Not incidentally, the pound has regained some of its lost ground.March 29 remains a meaningful deadline. One way or another, Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union then. Yet lawmakers and Mrs. May’s government have been unable to agree on a course of action. To continue deliberating about what to do, they would need to ask the bloc for an extension, like a team of unruly students who cannot even agree on a topic as a term-paper deadline approaches.Yet a delay is what most betting people think will happen, according to Capital Economics, which believes a negotiated settlement will, eventually, mitigate much of the harm that could be inflicted by an abrupt exit. This expectation is reflected in current stock, bond and currency prices, Capital Economics said.Bettors have not ruled out a much more disruptive scenario that is viewed as a low-probability event — somewhere below 20 percent but above zero. That is Britain’s exit on March 29 without any negotiated agreement at all.What would that mean? The Bank of England has boiled the probable effects down in straightforward and troubling terms. In a November report it projected that such a “no deal Brexit” would be a major shock that could subtract more than 10 percent from Britain’s gross domestic product.Unemployment would soar, inflation would rise and Britain would fall into a serious recession, the central bank said. While the sun set on the British Empire long ago, the fallout of a calamity in Britain for the European Union, the global markets and the worldwide economy, would be significant, if less easily measured.Goldman Sachs is less sanguine than rank-and-file bettors: In a report this month, it placed the odds that Brexit would be delayed at only 50-50. And, it said, “the distribution of risks around Brexit outcomes is widening.”Goldman placed a 40 percent probability on the chance that Britain, in the end, would not leave the European Union at all, which would be accomplished through another referendum repudiating the original vote. The bank assigned a 10 percent probability to a no-deal Brexit on March 29, with potentially calamitous consequences.For investors in the United States, Goldman produced a list of companies in the S&P 500 that derive considerable revenue from Britain. Buying shares of these stocks, or betting against them by shorting them, might be a handy way of using the American stock market to place a Brexit wager. The companies include Newmont Mining; PPL, a utility; and three financial services companies: Affiliated Managers; Willis, Towers, Watson; and Invesco.Corporations active in Britain have been hedging against Brexit for months, of course, by shifting parts of their operations to places deemed more stable.The latest to announce a move is Dyson, the appliances company privately held by James Dyson, an outspoken Brexit advocate. The company said this week that it would move its headquarters to Singapore. In an article in The Telegraph, Mr. Dyson assured his countrymen that he was making this move because of Asia’s expanding place in the company’s global operations, not because of Brexit.Whatever his reasons, most British residents can’t hedge against Brexit by relocating part of their households to another country. Instead, if the probability of a wrenching separation from Europe appeared to be rising, prudent people might take the steps that anyone does when a possible disaster looms: hoarding necessities like food, water and medicine; stocking up on cash and fuel; retreating to safer ground, if any can be found.Such measures may be individual lifesavers, but when many people take them at once, they may make a crisis more severe, especially when confidence in government is ebbing.Global markets shudder when panics start, which is why bets on potential crises are risky. And if this is true for Brexit, what can we say about the longest government shutdown in United States history?Financial markets have largely taken the shutdown, and the news Friday of a deal to re-open the government for three weeks, in stride. Despite the pain inflicted on government workers and those who depend on them, economists have generally concluded that the effects will be transitory.But even if a permanent funding agreement is reached, political tensions in the United States remain high, amid a series of simmering crises that could easily unnerve markets. These include the trade conflict between the United States and China and America’s fraying relations with allies like Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and Mexico.Market calculations shift swiftly, and hedging against losses on multiple fronts could quickly become the order of the day.The stock market’s strong start to the year stalled on Tuesday, amid growing pessimism about the prospects for a deal to defuse trade tensions between China and the United States.The S&P 500, which had enjoyed its best start to a year since 1987 through the end of trading on Friday, ended Tuesday down 1.4 percent, the market’s second-worst loss of the year.Stocks slumped from the outset, and the selling worsened through the day after The Financial Times reported that the Trump administration had rejected an offer from China to hold preparatory talks ahead of high-level trade meetings in Washington later this month.Such advance discussions are thought to be an important step toward cementing an agreement between the world’s two largest economies before March 1. After that date, tariffs on some $200 billion of Chinese goods are scheduled to rise sharply, which would send the trade war into a new and more serious phase.Trade-sensitive tech and industrial shares were the worst performers. Microsoft, Facebook and Google’s parent company, Alphabet, all slumped. Semiconductor makers — much of whose revenue comes from sales in China — tumbled, with Nvidia and Micron dropping more than 5 percent.The major industrial exporters Caterpillar and Boeing fell 3.2 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.The tone from industrial firms that reported earnings on Tuesday did little to improve the mood. Shares of the tool manufacturer Stanley Black & Decker tumbled more than 15 percent after the company offered a disappointing outlook for 2019.“We tried to make it very clear that the economic backdrop is one of slowing growth,” James M. Loree, chief executive of Stanley Black & Decker, said on a conference call with analysts.The trade war seems to be a growing source of weakness for the global economy. On Monday, China reported that its economy grew at its slowest rate, 6.6 percent, since 1990, amid a slowdown of its export sector.The report came the same day as the International Monetary Fund trimmed its forecast for global growth in 2019 to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent, citing, in part, slowing worldwide trade.WASHINGTON — In suspending its previous plans to continue raising rates this year, the Federal Reserve signaled that its march toward higher interest rates may be ending sooner than expected.The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said economic growth remained “solid” and the central bank expected growth to continue. But in a sharp reversal of the Fed’s stance just six week ago, Mr. Powell said the Fed had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again.“The case for raising rates has weakened somewhat,” Mr. Powell said, pointing to sluggish inflation, slowing growth in Europe and China, and the possibility of another federal government shutdown.“My colleagues and I have one overarching goal,” Mr. Powell said at a news conference on Wednesday after a two-day meeting of the Fed’s policymaking committee, “to sustain the economic expansion.”The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at its first meeting of 2019, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, may stay put for some time.Investors expressed their enthusiasm around the globe early Thursday. Major Asian markets like Japan and Hong Kong rose by about 1 percent, and European stocks opened higher. Futures markets that try to predict stock performances indicated Wall Street would open higher too.On Wednesday, the S&P 500-stock index climbed sharply after the Fed announcement and ended the day up 1.55 percent. Yields on shorter-term Treasury securities, which are heavily influenced by Fed policy, declined as investors concluded that any near-term interest rate increases were off the table.The Fed’s newfound caution is likely to delight President Trump, who argued loudly and publicly through much of 2018 that the Fed should stop raising its benchmark rate, which he said would snuff out the economic expansion. While the president did not address the Fed’s decision directly, he wrote on Twitter: “Dow just broke 25,000. Tremendous news!”Some on the other side of the political spectrum also supported the Fed’s move, saying the slow pace of inflation allowed the Fed to refrain from raising rates, so that job and wage growth could continue.Jared Bernstein, an economist at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, summarized the Fed’s new policy stance as “Don’t just do something, stand there!” He added that the new approach “seems right to me.” Mr. Bernstein said domestic growth was under pressure from tighter financial conditions, the slowdown in global growth and what he called “Trumpian chaos.”“Tightening under these conditions would be unnecessary roughness,” he said.For the last several years, the Fed said consistently that it planned to keep raising interest rates. The pace was uncertain, but the direction was clear. Wednesday’s statement omitted previous language indicating that “some further gradual increases” would be warranted. Instead, it said the Fed would be “patient” in evaluating the health of the economy. And it suggested the Fed stood ready either to raise or to cut rates, depending on economic conditions.Reinforcing this more cautious tone, the Fed also announced in a separate statement that it was prepared to slow or even reverse the steady slimming of its bond portfolio. This, too, was a striking shift. The Fed said in December that it was committed to steadily reducing its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, which it amassed during the financial crisis to help bolster the economy.The Fed’s policymaking committee voted unanimously for the changes.Fed officials had signaled the shift in their thinking in recent weeks, aligning on the theme of patience with unusual consistency, leaving little doubt of their intentions.Still, the strength of the shift caught analysts and investors by surprise, particularly given Mr. Powell’s more hawkish comments at the end of last year.While the Fed is pausing for now, Mr. Powell said he believed the central bank had raised rates to an appropriate level and had not overtightened. “I think our policy stance today is appropriate for the state of the economy,” he said. “That’s my feeling.”Mr. Powell did not directly address how long the Fed planned to remain patient but suggested any future rate increases would depend largely on signs of inflation, which has consistently fallen below the Fed’s 2 percent target.“I would want to see a need for further rate increases, and for me a big part of that would be inflation,” he said.Brian Coulton, chief economist at Fitch Ratings, said he expected economic growth to continue and therefore he expected the Fed to resume rate increases this year. “This reads more like a pause than a strong signal that they believe that they are the end of the hiking cycle,” Mr. Coulton said. “Barring a very significant global downturn, we still see further rate increases later this year.”Others, however, said the Fed may well have raised rates for the last time during the current economic expansion. “It does feel like the top of the cycle,” said Tim Duy, an economist at the University of Oregon who follows the central bank closely. “With the economy poised to slow over the next year, the Fed is not interested in risking turning that slowdown into a recession.”The shift left some Fed watchers puzzling over why the central bank had reversed course so quickly.In early October, Mr. Powell described the Fed’s benchmark interest rate as “a long way from neutral.” The comment was read by markets as implying that the Fed planned to continue raising rates for some time.Mr. Powell sought to soften that impression in subsequent public appearances. After the Fed raised the benchmark rate by a quarter point at its December meeting, Mr. Powell said that the rate was at the lower end of what Fed officials consider the neutral zone: the region in which rates would neither stimulate nor restrain the economy. That implied the Fed was closer to pausing.But Mr. Powell still said the Fed expected to keep raising its benchmark interest rate. And the Fed released projections showing most of its officials predicted at least two rate increases in 2019.In his opening remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Powell said that the change in the Fed’s plans did not reflect “a major shift in the baseline outlook for the economy.” But he struggled to explain the Fed’s reasoning, suggesting later in the news conference that the outlook for growth had soured. He pointed to problems including tightening financial conditions, weak global growth and the government shutdown.One point he made insistently was that the Fed was not taking its cues from Mr. Trump, despite the president’s constant heckling. “We’re human,” Mr. Powell said. “We make mistakes. But we’re not going to make mistakes of character or integrity.”The Fed on Wednesday also sought to clarify its plans for its giant stockpile of Treasuries and mortgage bonds it accumulated in the wake of the financial crisis. A decade ago, the central bank tried to revive economic activity and reduce borrowing costs for things like cars and mortgages by cutting its benchmark interest rate nearly to zero, and by vacuuming up huge quantities of bonds.The Fed’s bond-buying program was intended to encourage investors to buy riskier assets, like stocks and corporate bonds, by driving up the price of safer securities, like Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. The Fed’s enormous purchases drove down interest rates because, as competition for available Treasuries increased, buyers were forced to accept lower rates of return.As the economy recovered, the Fed decided to take away that crutch and since the fall of 2017, it has gradually reduced its holdings at a pace of about $45 billion per month. But the Fed said on Wednesday that it planned to stop relatively soon, maintaining a much larger presence in the bond market than it did before the 2008 crisis.The decision has limited implications for the general public. Some Fed officials and outside experts think that the new approach has improved the Fed’s ability to influence economic conditions, like interest rates, but the practical difference is generally regarded as modest.But it is a big deal for bond markets. The Fed is the world’s largest investor, and even small changes in Fed policy make large ripples. The decision was applauded by some investors, who argue that the Fed’s withdrawal from the bond market is contributing to the volatility of asset prices. Other investors, however, want the Fed to minimize its profile in the bond market.In a final bow to markets, the Fed emphasized its plans were subject to change.“The committee is prepared to adjust any of the details for completing the balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments,” the statement said. It added the Fed was even willing to increase the size of the balance sheet, if necessary.This could get messy.Facing tens of billions of dollars in wildfire liabilities, Pacific Gas and Electric on Tuesday filed for bankruptcy protection, a step that the company has said was its “only viable option.” But some PG&E investors, elected leaders in its home state of California and public interest groups contend that bankruptcy is not needed and will hurt millions of ratepayers and anybody who owns shares in the utility or does business with it.That fundamental disagreement about the company’s financial health is one of the main reasons the utility’s bankruptcy case could drag on for months. The filing will create uncertainty for the company’s creditors and people who have lost homes and loved ones to fires that were started by PG&E’s equipment and are seeking compensation from the company. The case could also cost the company hundreds of millions of dollars in fees, to Wall Street and white-shoe law firms.PG&E’s bankruptcy could have consequences far beyond its immediate winners and losers. The bankruptcy could shape California’s response to climate change and the threat of catastrophic wildfires. Why did PG&E file for bankruptcy protection?At first glance, PG&E appears to be solvent. At the end of September, the company’s assets exceeded its debt by about $20 billion. What is at dispute is just how much the company owes for starting wildfires in 2017 and 2018. The utility says it could be on the hook for $30 billion. But right now, investors seem to be betting that PG&E can go through bankruptcy, meet wildfire claims and still have money left over for shareholders. That is why PG&E’s stock price closed up more than 16 percent on Tuesday afternoon, giving the company a market value of more than $7 billion. Bankrupt companies typically have a negligible market value.And investors may be optimistic because they believe PG&E will end up paying substantially less than $30 billion in wildfire claims. One reason for that outlook is that the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection concluded last week that PG&E equipment was not at fault for the Tubbs Fire, which killed 22 people and destroyed over 5,600 buildings. Had it been found responsible, the company could have been liable for $8 billion in damages.Bankruptcy could also help ease the financial pressure on PG&E. By delaying some payments, and taking on new loans, the company hopes to avoid running low on cash and not being able to afford improvements that reduce the risk of future fires. That is because loans a company takes on while it is in bankruptcy court are typically paid before the company’s other obligations.Who might get trampled in a bankruptcy?Estimating wildfire costs is tricky, and PG&E’s liabilities could end up being larger than investors expect. In that case, the stock could get wiped out. Creditors and wildfire claimants would then be at risk of not getting all that they are owed.That risk was highlighted last week in federal court in a separate case. In that case, PG&E is under probation after the utility was convicted of felonies stemming from a 2010 gas explosion in San Bruno near San Francisco. Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court, who is overseeing the utility’s probation, has said he wants PG&E to eliminate the risk that the utility’s equipment would start wildfires. In a court filing last week, PG&E said complying with the judge’s proposal could cost up to $150 billion.But even if the utility appears to have enough money to meet all debts and liability claims, some people or businesses could be hurt. To keep its operations going, PG&E is expected to make payments to some contractors and vendors before others. And contracts that were reached at prices that are well above today’s prevailing rates could be revised down in bankruptcy. Several contracts PG&E has signed with solar power suppliers might be vulnerable to such revisions. One supplier, NextEra, has asked the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees wholesale power contracts, to intervene if PG&E tries to reject contracts. PG&E on Tuesday asked the bankruptcy court to assert that it has exclusive jurisdiction over such contracts.Wildfire victims might have to wait longer than they had anticipated for their claims to be paid. A case involving the utility stemming from the so-called North Bay fires of 2017 is scheduled to go to trial in September in San Francisco County Superior Court. Resolution of that case could be delayed because it might now also have to win the approval of the federal bankruptcy court, a lawyer for plaintiffs in that case said.“The reality is that there’s a ton of needless work that’s going to get done,” the lawyer, Michael Kelly, said.Who’s going to make money from PG&E’s bankruptcy?Bankruptcy cases involving big corporations usually produce hundreds of millions of dollars in fees for lawyers, bankers and consultants. BlueMountain Capital Management, which owns PG&E stock and opposes the company’s bankruptcy, says PG&E’s last bankruptcy, filed in 2001, cost more than $400 million in fees. The current case could cost a lot more because lawyers’ hourly rates have gone up a lot since then.The 2014 bankruptcy filing of Energy Future Holdings, a Texas utility, yielded professional fees of more than $600 million, according to data collected by Texas Lawbook. Still, some legal experts say that processing many claims in one court can save money. “It’s going to produce some pretty big efficiencies,” said Lynn M. LoPucki, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.PG&E has also asked the bankruptcy court to approve roughly $130 million of 2018 bonus payments to employees, who stand to get $5,000 to $90,000 each. The $130 million figure does not include the bonuses for 12 senior PG&E executives. The company has not yet asked the court to approve payments to those executives, although it noted that senior officers are typically eligible to receive bonuses in bankruptcy. What can California do to get lasting benefits out the bankruptcy?It depends on what steps elected leaders take. PG&E’s bankruptcy highlights the flaws in how the state pays for catastrophic wildfires. Even after bankruptcy, PG&E may not be strong enough to prevent and meet the cost of future fires. As a result, many investors might be reluctant to lend to the company or might only do so at high interest rates.The California Legislature could seek to expand the scope of legislation it passed last year that allowed utilities to pass on some of the costs of wildfires to its customers in the form of higher electricity rates. But voters would consider that a bailout of PG&E. An idea outlined in a bill introduced this month by Chad Mayes, a Republican assemblyman, offers a different approach. He is proposing to create an industry-financed insurance fund that pays for catastrophic wildfire costs. Such a fund might reassure investors that bankruptcy is no longer the most likely option when a utility is hit with huge damage claims, and it may also satisfy residents who oppose legislation that is too favorable to utilities. California needs to take bold steps to avoid another utility bankruptcy, said Severin Borenstein, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. “The potential for catastrophic loss and liability is going to be here, and as long as it’s here, you’re going to need some sort of process for sorting it out that’s not bankruptcy.”SAN FRANCISCO — The chip-making giant Intel ended a seven-month search for a new chief executive on Thursday by naming the man who was running the company on an interim basis as its permanent leader.Robert Swan, who was installed as interim chief executive in June, had been Intel’s chief financial officer since joining the company in 2016.Mr. Swan, 58, inherits a role that opened up suddenly when Brian Krzanich, a longtime Intel insider who ran the company for five years, was forced out over a past affair with an employee.Mr. Swan, who is well regarded on Wall Street, initially said he was not interested in becoming the permanent chief executive. But he made no mention of his prior reluctance in a letter to employees on Thursday.“When the board approached me about taking the C.E.O. role, I jumped at the opportunity to remove ‘interim’ from my title,” he said.The lengthy search for a successor to Mr. Krzanich prompted speculation that Intel would pick an outsider for the first time in its 50-year history. Andy Bryant, Intel’s chairman, said Thursday that the board had conducted a “comprehensive” evaluation of internal and external candidates before settling on Mr. Swan. Mr. Bryant credited Mr. Swan’s performance in the interim role for making the difference.“We considered many outstanding executives, and we concluded the best choice is Bob,” Mr. Bryant said in prepared remarks.Although Mr. Swan is taking the helm when Intel is financially strong, it faces many questions about its future. One main cause for concern was the company’s stumble in establishing a new process for producing tinier transistors on chips, a pattern of miniaturization that regularly lowers the cost of computing and storing data.Intel wound up with a shortage of some kinds of chips, particularly those used in personal computers, because production capacity meant for the new process had to be shifted back to the company’s existing manufacturing technology.Intel reported last week that its revenue had increased 13 percent, to $70.8 billion, in 2018. But the company projected only slight growth for this year, amid heightened competition and uncertainty about sales in China.In his current role, Mr. Swan has stressed a strategy that would take Intel — long the dominant supplier of processors for personal computers and server systems — into larger markets where it has lagged. In his letter to employees, he said Intel needed to be more unified and to reduce its operating miscues.“Our execution must improve,” he wrote. “And it will. Our customers are counting on us.”Mr. Swan, a relative newcomer to semiconductors, has plenty of experience in the technology sector. He spent nine years as eBay’s chief financial officer and served as chief financial officer and chief executive of the ill-fated delivery start-up Webvan Group. Immediately before joining Intel, he served as an operating partner at the equity firm General Atlantic.Analysts said the choice of Mr. Swan suggested Intel’s directors believed the company was headed in the right direction.Wall Street was probably expecting Intel’s board to pick a more “transformational or visionary choice with a proven track record,” Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Rosenblatt Securities, wrote in a research note. “Our view is that Bob is a solid choice on the notion that, as a non-semiconductor guy, he can look at the big decisions ahead dispassionately.”Intel’s stock was down around 1 percent on Thursday.Intel also said Thursday that Todd Underwood, vice president of finance and director of corporate planning and reporting, would be interim chief financial officer as the company sought a permanent successor to Mr. Swan.Apple said on Tuesday that profits were flat and revenues were down in its most recent quarter, indicating a difficult road ahead for a company that five months ago became the first American firm to be valued above $1 trillion.The disappointing financial performance had been expected since Jan. 2, when Apple, for the first time in 16 years, revised its forecast for the quarter because of an economic slowdown in China and diminishing demand for new iPhones.Now, after years of expansion and record-setting profits, Apple appears to be entering a period of vulnerability. While it has had some success with new products like the Apple Watch, the company has not found another product with the global impact of the iPhone, which was introduced more than a decade ago. Apple is also uniquely vulnerable to slowing consumer demand in China, as well as potential tariffs on Chinese-made products.Apple’s stock price is down a third since its peak last summer, and now it is worth less than several of its longtime rivals in the tech industry.Apple could face more financial pressure if the Trump administration places tariffs on phones made in China — something President Trump has threatened to do. The bulk of Apple’s products are made in Chinese factories.There are also new concerns about a security flaw in the iPhone. On Monday, Apple customers said an iPhone user could call someone else who had an iPhone and listen in on that person’s conversations through the device’s microphone — even if the recipient did not answer the call. The problem was the result of a bug involving Apple’s FaceTime app. The company promised to have a fix by the end of the week.Apple’s total revenue for the quarter was $84.3 billion, a 5 percent drop from a year earlier and in line with the revised forecast earlier this month.Sales of iPhones, following a global trend for smartphones, have been leveling off for several years. Their revenue was $51.98 billion, a 15 percent drop from a year earlier. It’s harder now to offer more specifics on iPhone sales because Apple recently stopped disclosing how many units it sells each quarter.Luca Maestri, Apple’s chief financial officer, said in an interview that sales had slumped largely because current iPhone owners were waiting longer to upgrade their devices, a trend that has continued into the current quarter. He blamed fewer subsidies from wireless carriers, a strengthening United States dollar and cheaper battery upgrades that consumers have used to extend the lives of their old phones.Apple has attributed some of its issues in China to a trade war with the United States. And there is concern that some Chinese customers are shying away from Apple products out of national pride, particularly since the authorities in the United States brought charges against the Chinese telecom giant Huawei and its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou. Prosecutors cited a decade-long attempt to steal trade secrets, obstruct a criminal investigation and evade economic sanctions on Iran.“We did not foresee the magnitude of the economic deceleration, particularly in greater China,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said this month.But some data suggest Apple faces more fundamental problems with its business in China. Chinese consumers appear to be opting for less expensive but similar smartphones from Chinese makers, particularly Huawei. Some of Apple’s latest phones top $1,000, far above the typical cost for its Chinese competitors.Total sales in the region that includes China were down 25 percent in the fourth quarter to $13.17 billion. Outside China, revenues increased slightly.“We’ve actually seen the economic situation in China continue to deteriorate over the course of the quarter,” Mr. Maestri said. “From mid-November onwards, we’ve seen a deceleration of economic activity in China.”But he added that Apple had recovered some business by cutting prices in China for the iPhone XR, the lowest-priced new iPhone, to offset the strengthening dollar. Apple declined to disclose the exact size of the price cut.Mr. Cook said in a call with financial analysts that he believed the iPhone’s high price had hurt sales in emerging markets, and that Apple had dropped prices in a number of them.Apple made up for tepid iPhone sales in the quarter with 19 percent revenue growth in other areas. The wearables category, which includes the Apple Watch and AirPods headphones, led the way with a 33 percent increase to $7.3 billion.Apple’s earnings per share were $4.18 in the quarter, beating analysts’ expectations by a penny. Apple’s overall profit was down 0.5 percent to $19.97 billion.Apple’s struggles appear to be continuing. The company said it expected between $55 billion and $59 billion in revenue in the current quarter, below analysts’ expectations for $59 billion.Apple’s share price was up more than 5 percent in after-hours trading after its results were announced on Tuesday.Good Thursday. Want this by email? Sign up here.BB&T and SunTrust plan to combineThe banks said this morning that they would unite in an all-stock deal that values the combined lender at $66 billion. If completed, it would be the biggest bank merger since the 2008 financial crisis, and it comes after years of speculation that lenders needed to combine to cut costs and gain scale.A new banking giant: The combined lender would be the sixth-biggest in the U.S., measured by assets and deposits. The two banks currently hold $442 billion in assets and $324 billion in deposits.The terms: BB&T would pay 1.295 of its shares, worth $62.85 as of yesterday’s closing price, for each SunTrust share. (That’s a 7 percent premium to SunTrust’s closing price.) BB&T would own 57 percent of the combined firm.The new leadership team: Kelly King, BB&T’s chairman and C.E.O., would become executive chairman of the combined firm. William Rogers, his counterpart at SunTrust, would become C.E.O.The rationale: Analysts have said that regional lenders need to merge if they are to fend off bigger national rivals and insurgent online competitors. “It’s an extraordinarily attractive financial proposition that provides the scale needed to compete and win in the rapidly evolving world of financial services,” Mr. King said in a statement.Germany seeks to put limits on Facebook’s data useGerman antitrust authorities will prohibit Facebook from combining user data from different sources without consent, the BBC reports.Facebook won’t be able to collate user data “outside of the Facebook website in the internet or on smartphone apps and assign these data to the user’s Facebook account” unless users give their voluntary consent.That will include Facebook-owned services like WhatsApp and Instagram. While the ruling applies only to the company’s operations in Germany, it could influence other regulators. That could make the social network’s plans to integrate all of its messaging services more difficult.Facebook plans to appeal. If it fails, it would be given four months to comply with the new restrictions.Trump may be serious about big tech investmentDuring his State of the Union address, President Trump called on Congress to help him make “investments in the cutting-edge industries of the future.” He devoted only a couple of lines to the issue in the 82-minute speech, but the WSJ reports that he appears to be serious.• Unidentified sources told the newspaper that “the president is preparing to issue a series of executive orders soon aimed at boosting the U.S. strength in advanced technology.”• “Those could include more ways of leveraging the sprawling federal government’s resources to advance artificial intelligence, these people say. The U.S. also is looking to encourage new corporate competitors into the 5G race.”• “On 5G, U.S. officials are focused on ensuring a secure supply chain. The fear is that if Chinese firms such as Huawei Technologies Co. come to dominate equipment manufacturing, that could leave the West with no competitive suppliers.”• “For A.I., administration officials have explored making more use of the technology inside the government, turning Washington into a kind of incubator.”Should Trump be excited about a narrowing U.S. trade deficit?America’s global trade deficit fell in November for the first time in five months, according to Commerce Department figures released yesterday.On the surface, that looks like good news for President Trump. He thinks of the imbalance in trade with other nations as a sign that the U.S. is being taken advantage of. That the deficit fell to $49.3 billion in November from $55.7 billion in October suggests it’s becoming less of an issue.But it’s not all positive. “The data show that despite tariffs on Chinese goods, U.S. consumers and companies keep buying items from the country, importing 7 percent more merchandise in the first 11 months of 2018 than the same period in 2017,” Katia Dmitrieva and Shawn Donnan of Bloomberg write.Coming up: Another Brexit impassePrime Minister Theresa May of Britain looks set for a tough day. She’s in Brussels for a series of talks meant to get her Brexit plans back on course — but will be greeted by some stony faces.Mrs. May wants to reopen the Brexit deal she struck with the E.U. She seeks “changes in the Irish backstop, designed to avoid customs checks on the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland,” Stephen Castle of the NYT writes, after Parliament rejected a previous version largely because of concerns over the border.But the E.U. doesn’t plan to play ball. The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, has said that it “cannot reopen the discussion on the backstop,” adding that Mrs. May “knows that the Commission is not prepared to reopen the issue.” (The president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, didn’t help matters when he wondered aloud “what that special place in hell looks like, for those who promoted #Brexit, without even a sketch of a plan how to carry it out safely.”)So now what? “Officials in Brussels say they expect Thursday’s discussions to be polite, if not particularly productive,” Mr. Castle writes.Malpass defends his nomination as World Bank chiefPresident Trump officially nominated David Malpass, a top Treasury official and Wall Street veteran, to be the next president of the World Bank.Mr. Malpass is a contentious choice. “His appointment, which must be approved by the World Bank’s board, could prove controversial given Mr. Malpass’s skepticism of the bank and concerns that the Trump administration could politicize the role and use it to curb China’s growing global influence around the world,” write Alan Rappeport and Binyamin Appelbaum of the NYT.But he’s keen to reassure people that he’s up to the job. “I care deeply about the mission and about breaking out of poverty and achieving growth, and I am sure the World Bank can succeed,” Mr. Malpass said yesterday. “As I look at it, I’ve been a constructive force for development and for developing countries. I think the bank is well positioned to be a positive contributor to that.”Not everyone will be convinced. “David Malpass will have a lot of work to do to convince other shareholders that he is prepared to move beyond his past statements and track record when it comes to the World Bank’s agenda,” Scott Morris, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development in Washington, told the FT. “The rest of the world holds 84 percent of the voting power at the World Bank. It’s fully within their ability to block an unsuitable nominee.”Gig economy workers score a win at InstacartThe delivery service said yesterday that it would change a controversial tip payout policy.What happened: Previously, the company counted tips for delivery people toward guaranteed minimum payments offered to workers, drawing complaints that they were being shortchanged wages. Instacart’s C.E.O., Apoorva Mehta, said that he had now reversed the policy: “It’s our responsibility to change course quickly when we realize we’re on the wrong path and we believe today’s changes are a step in the right direction.”Why it matters: Gig economy workers are largely contract workers, exempting them from many labor protections. But Kevin Roose of the NYT writes that Instacart’s about-face shows that they can still find ways to put pressure on their companies: “By organizing en masse and expressing vocal opposition to exploitative policies, they have managed to wring some concessions out of the billion-dollar corporations whose labor they provide.”But the problem may run deeper: Shirin Ghaffary of Recode writes that “many workers in the new on-demand app economy are not being paid a consistent living wage.”Should we abolish billionaires?Income inequality around the world is under fire. Howard Schultz’s potential presidential run, financed by his Starbucks billions, has been criticized by Democrats. Lawmakers are campaigning for higher taxes on the wealthy.At this moment, Farhad Manjoo asks in his latest NYT opinion column whether billionaires should even exist:• “Banishing billionaires — seeking to cut their economic power, working to reduce their political power and attempting to question their social status — is a pithy, perfectly encapsulated vision for surviving the digital future.”• “It could mean preventing people from keeping more than a billion in booty, but more likely it would mean higher marginal taxes on income, wealth and estates for billionaires and people on the way to becoming billionaires.”• “Artificial intelligence is creating prosperous new industries that don’t employ very many workers; left unchecked, technology is creating a world where a few billionaires control an unprecedented share of global wealth.”• Mr. Manjoo concedes that some billionaires use their wealth for good. The moral philosopher Peter Singer has pointed to Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, who have pledged to give away the bulk of their money to charity.• But Mr. Manjoo concludes, “If we tolerate the supposedly ‘good’ billionaires in politics, we inevitably leave open the door for the bad ones. And the bad ones will overrun us.”Revolving doorThe metals company Arconic named its chairman, John Plant, as its new C.E.O., replacing Chip Blankenship.Bob Diamond stepped down as chairman of the investment firm Atlas Mara.Andrew Thorburn will resign as National Australia Bank’s C.E.O. following a government report critical of the country’s banking industry. Ken Henry will step down as N.A.B.’s chairman as well.Sonos’s C.F.O., Michael Giannetto, plans to retire from the speaker maker this year.The insurer Oscar Health has hired Sid Sankaran, who was most recently A.I.G.’s chief financial officer, as its C.F.O.Caryn Marooney, Facebook’s top P.R. executive, plans to retire after eight years at the company.CBS named Bill Owens, a veteran of “60 Minutes,” as its new executive producer.The speed readDeals• SoftBank has spent half of its Vision Fund, prompting questions about how and when it will raise more money. Separately, the Vision Fund has sold off its entire $3.6 billion stake in the chipmaker Nvidia. (WSJ, CNBC)• The missteps that may have cost Alstom and Siemens their rail merger include calling the proposed combined company a “European champion,” which raised regulators’ antitrust fears. (FT)• A regulatory filing by G.M. hints that the carmaker may spin off its Cruise autonomous driving unit. (Reuters)• Yelp hired the investment bank Evercore to help defend it against the activist investor SQN, which is pushing for a sale of the company. (CNBC)Politics and policy• Senator Richard M. Burr, the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, warned U.S. companies that using Chinese telecom equipment in their 5G networks could pose a national security risk. (NYT)• Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she would endorse a bipartisan plan on border security. (NYT)• Congressional Democrats will press T-Mobile on its executives’ stays at Mr. Trump’s Washington hotel after the company began seeking approval for its proposed takeover of Sprint. (WaPo)• A fourth member of Robert Mueller’s team has stepped down, suggesting that the special counsel’s investigation may be nearly complete. (CNN)Tech• How Facebook has overcome China’s internet blocks to make ad dollars in the country. (NYT)• Spotify’s latest acquisitions show that the company is no longer just about music. (NYT)• Video game stocks are getting clobbered. Blame Fortnite. (DealBook)• SoftBank’s C.E.O., Masa Son, insists that the company is undervalued. Is it? (Breakingviews)• The New York Police Department wants Waze to stop revealing the locations of D.W.I. checkpoints. (CBS)• A lot of people have put their trust in blockchain technology. Perhaps they shouldn’t. (Wired)• Here are the new emojis you’ve been waiting for. Now with added falafel. (NYT)Best of the rest• Carmakers predict a dismal 2019. Blame China, along with electric and self-driving vehicles. (FT)• Did Donald Trump want $20 million to put his name on a Moscow tower? A Ukrainian-Russian real estate developer says so. (Bloomberg)• Farm Belt bankruptcies are rising. (WSJ)• A five-day winning streak for U.S. stocks ended yesterday. (WSJ)• How the German government plans to fix Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Why a desire for downtown living is putting the American Chinatown at risk. (Atlantic)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Gold bugs aren’t always rational. That’s not the case for central banks, whose purchases of the yellow metal last year were the highest since the United States broke the link between gold and the dollar in 1971. For these institutions, it’s less a short-term gamble that prices of the precious commodity will rise, and more a concern that dollar dominance could gradually be eroded.Central banks bought 651.5 tonnes of gold in 2018, the second highest annual total on record and up 74 percent from the year earlier, according to the World Gold Council. As in the past three years, Kazakhstan, Russia and Turkey were significant buyers, but were last year joined by the likes of Hungary, India and Poland.Official foreign exchange reserve managers tend to be tight-lipped. But Hungary in October explained that it had increased its gold reserves tenfold for long-term stability reasons, rather than short-term investment considerations. The precious metal was in limited supply and it had no credit or so-called counterparty risks, because it was not a claim on a specific institution or country.Such thinking may seem like a version of one reason individual investors stock up on gold: because they are terrified of holding ostensibly riskier assets, like shares and bonds. With geopolitical tensions rife, that would be understandable.But there are two bigger reasons for central banks to buy gold:• One is concern about America’s use of dollar dominance in the global financial system to exert its authority. Germany, France and Britain have tried to open a new nondollar trade channel with Iran, but it probably won’t be able to significantly subvert United States sanctions against the Islamic Republic. No wonder that the European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker wants to promote the euro as a global currency, rather than accepting dollar price tags for planes, energy and other goods.• Even more important is the rise of China. Its economy accounts for almost a fifth of global gross domestic product and more than a tenth of global trade, but its currency makes up less than 2 percent of central bank reserves, as the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum points out.Reserve managers may not know how long it will take for China’s currency, or the euro, to nibble away at the dollar’s pre-eminence. But they are taking small precautionary steps to diversify their exposure away from the dollar. That is far removed from the blind enthusiasm usually associated with gold fever.Late last month, chip giant Advanced Micro Devices reported disappointing financial results for the fourth quarter and warned that its first-quarter performance would be weaker than expected. The stock surged 20 percent.A couple of days later, General Electric reported one of its skimpiest quarterly profits of the century, badly missing analysts’ forecasts. The company’s stock posted its biggest jump in nearly a decade.In recent weeks, numerous companies — including Wynn Resorts, Ford and JPMorgan Chase — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally. Corporate America — and its shareholders — are the beneficiaries of a sudden improvement in the markets’ mood in the past two months. And that new optimism could keep propelling stocks higher, analysts said. With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.The outlook was much gloomier in December. At the end of last year, the prospect of a trade war, higher interest rates, a slowing global economy and political dysfunction soured Wall Street’s attitude. Investors dumped shares at the faintest whiff of tougher times ahead.Now, they’re buying even though corporate earnings have been relatively weak, with fewer companies beating Wall Street expectations than in recent quarters. The S&P 500 is up roughly 5 percent since companies started reporting results in middle of January. Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade, according to data from Bespoke Investment Group, a stock market research firm. “The market is being unbelievably kind,” said Jonathan Golub, chief United States equity strategist at Credit Suisse.The dynamic has also been a boon for companies whose financial results missed the mark. In recent years, the shares of companies whose profits or sales numbers didn’t beat Wall Street’s expectations lagged behind the broader market by 3.5 percentage points in the trading day that followed. This year, they have trailed by only 1.1 percentage points, according to analysis from Credit Suisse.Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon. That’s been bolstered by the Fed’s recent shift to a wait-and-see approach on future interest rate increases.Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed. “I would say the market is still pricing in flat-to-negative earnings growth,” said Binky Chadha, chief U.S. equity and global strategist at Deutsche Bank in New York. “So we basically see room for the relief rally to continue.”At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results. Advanced Micro Devices’ results were weighed down by sluggish sales of graphics-processing chips designed for consumer products, a further indication that Chinese consumers have pulled back on tech spending. The same Chinese slowdown hurt Ford’s results, which fell just short of Wall Street expectations. “The industry really fell off very, very sharply,” said Robert Shanks, the automaker’s chief financial officer. The company’s shares rose 3 percent. Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat running for president, received a $300,000 book advance for her latest book, “This Fight Is Our Fight,” according to financial disclosure forms filed with federal elections officials on Tuesday.Other than the book advance, the forms paint a similar picture of Ms. Warren’s finances as her previous publicly available financial statements. While the senator has shaped her political brand around fighting unrestrained capitalism and reining in wealth inequality, she remains fairly wealthy herself: Her combined assets with her husband, reported through a variety of ordinary investment accounts, range between about $4 million and $11 million. Ms. Warren has between $500,000 and $1 million in an annuity.The documents also showed Ms. Warren retained her title as “emeritus professor” at Harvard Law School, where she was a professor before entering public office. Ms. Warren reported no debts.Ms. Warren’s personal wealth places her well behind several other senators in terms of personal wealth, though Roll Call ranked her as the 69th wealthiest member of Congress a year ago.Members of Congress tend to be far wealthier than the average American, and Ms. Warren is the first presidential hopeful to swiftly release her personal financial disclosure. Ethics rules require presidential candidates to release the financial disclosures within weeks of announcing their candidacy, though candidates are also allowed to ask for an extension (Texas Democrat Julian Castro already has).[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Like Ms. Warren, other Democratic contenders have pledged to be similarly transparent throughout the nomination process — in part because they want to draw sharp contrasts with President Trump. Mr. Trump has released his personal financial disclosure form, but a large portion of his financial history remains unknown. Unlike every other president in modern history, he has refused to release his tax returns.Ms. Warren’s financial disclosure forms were first reported by The Center for Public Integrity in Washington. She has released 10 years of tax returns on her website, stretching back to her first year in public office.In those forms, Ms. Warren and her husband reported an adjusted gross income of $913,000. The returns listed their total tax as about $268,000 and their total tax payments as $302,227. They were eligible for a refund of $34,000.On the campaign trail, Ms. Warren frequently mentions her transparency regarding tax returns, and her policy proposal called the “Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity Act,” which would, among other things, require all candidates for federal office to release their taxes before taking office. That same proposal would “end lobbying as we know it,” Ms. Warren says, by eliminating foreign lobbying, ban stock trading from members of Congress, and not allow individuals to frequently rotate between public service jobs and lobbying firms.She has made “corruption” a central theme of her presidential message.“It is an America right now who works for the rich and powerful. And we need to call it out for what it is: corruption pure and simple,” Ms. Warren said in Iowa. “What’s happening to opportunity in this country? Why is the path so rocky for many — and why is it so much rockier for people of color?”Good Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.A ‘chip dip’ threatens Big Tech’s cloutFrom Apple to Nvidia, tech companies say that business is slowing. What’s happening?Big tech companies are reporting lackluster results. Weak Chinese consumer demand blew a $9 billion hole in Apple’s latest quarterly sales. Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations. Intel’s January financials didn’t meet forecasts. And Samsung’s sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter.Behind the trend: semiconductors. “China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand,” write David Streitfeld and Don Clark of the NYT. With chip manufacturers predicting slumping sales for 2019, tech more generally could be in line for a slowdown.Sound familiar? “The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust,” write Mr. Streitfeld and Mr. Clark.And the industry no longer carries the stock market. For years, stock market performance have been tied to the fortunes of the largest tech companies: Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix. As the S&P 500 pushed to a record high last summer, rises in those six companies’ share prices accounted for half of its gain. But when the index rallied nearly 8 percent in January, Stephen Grocer writes, their stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the rise.Lloyd Blankfein may pay for Goldman’s links to 1MDBThe former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. — as well as his successor, David Solomon, and other top executives — may have to give back some compensation from 2018, depending on the findings of an investigation into the firm’s work with the scandal-ridden Malaysian investment fund 1MDB.The announcement, made in a regulatory filing on Friday, shows how seriously Goldman is treating any role it may have had in fraud committed at 1MDB. Prosecutors in the U.S. and Malaysia are leading criminal investigations into 1MDB, and a former top deal maker at the firm has pleaded guilty to bribery, conspiracy and money laundering charges. Goldman says it’s cooperating with authorities.The WSJ calculates that Mr. Blankfein, who stepped down as chief executive of Goldman last year, might lose millions. And though Mr. Solomon wasn’t a top-ranking Goldman executive at the time, he could see some of his $23 million pay for last year clawed back as well. (Gary Cohn, who was Goldman’s No. 2 during the 1MDB work and received a lump payout when he left the firm in 2017, wouldn’t be affected.)In lighter Goldman news: Mr. Solomon, whose side hustle is DJing as DJ D-Sol, has released his second single, “Feel Alive.”Deutsche Bank refused Trump a loan in 2016For two decades, Deutsche Bank was the only major lender to give Donald Trump money, helping him finance his real estate operations. But when he sought a loan in early 2016 to help pay for a Scottish golf course — all while running for president — the German lender said no.More from David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Ben Protess of the NYT:Senior officials at the bank, including its future chief executive, believed that Mr. Trump’s divisive candidacy made such a loan too risky, the people said. Among their concerns was that if Mr. Trump won the election and then defaulted, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between not collecting on the debt or seizing the assets of the president of the United States.What’s next: Expect House Democrats to include this in their investigation of Mr. Trump’s finances.More Deutsche Bank news: The lender reportedly scrambled to rid itself of a $600 million loan made to VTB, a Russian state-owned bank, in late 2016 as the German bank sought to reduce its exposure to Russian entities.How an S.U.V. became a Brexit warning signThe automaker Nissan confirmed yesterday that it had abandoned plans to build its new X-Trail sport utility vehicle in Britain and said that the car would be produced solely in Japan. It’s a blow for the British economy, and a clear signal that uncertainty over Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. is weighing on corporate minds.A clear culprit. “The continued uncertainty around the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. is not helping companies like ours to plan for the future,” Nissan’s Europe chairman, Gianluca de Ficchy, said in a statement. Greg Clark, Britain’s business secretary, told the FT that it was “a warning sign” about how much damage could be caused by a no-deal Brexit.Nissan is not alone. British C.F.O.s say that Brexit is currently the largest threat to their businesses. Some 78 percent of those surveyed said that the business environment in the nation would deteriorate if Britain left the E.U.What now? Prime Minister Theresa May is set to return to Brussels in the coming days in an attempt to redraft her Brexit deal. In the meantime, Bloomberg reports that she “will launch a new government working group intended to unite the feuding pro- and anti-Brexit factions” in her party.The oil field that made American oil greatThe U.S. is now the top oil producer in the world, able to sway petroleum prices and breezily sanction Iran and Venezuela. The reason, as Cliff Krauss of the NYT notes: the Permian Basin, the heart of America’s shale industry.How big is it? It covers the same area as South Dakota, and produces four million barrels of oil a day — making it a bigger generator of oil than any member of OPEC other than Iraq and Saudi Arabia.What makes it special? It’s huge and rich in oil rather than in less-valuable natural gas. And it’s close to refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.What could go wrong? Oil companies there might pump too much, drawing ire from OPEC. As Scott Sheffield, the chairman of Pioneer Natural Resources, told the NYT: “You could have another price war.” And U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan crude could hurt American refineries, which can’t rely solely on the Permian.Hungry for ‘executive time’ in your calendar? Study Trump’s schedule and weepAxios has published almost three months of President Trump’s schedules after they were leaked, reportedly by somebody in the White House. Some highlights:• “Trump has spent around 60 percent of his scheduled time over the past three months in unstructured ‘Executive Time.’ ”• “He spends his mornings in the residence, watching TV, reading the papers, and responding to what he sees and reads by phoning aides, members of Congress, friends, administration officials and informal advisers,” six people with direct knowledge of his schedule told Axios.• “Trump’s first meeting of the day — usually around 11 or 11:30 a.m. — is often an intelligence briefing or a 30-minute meeting with the chief of staff.”• “The president sometimes has meetings during Executive Time that he doesn’t want most West Wing staff to know about for fear of leaks. And his mornings sometimes include calls with heads of state, political meetings and meetings with counsel in the residence, which aren’t captured on these schedules.”Bonus: Axios also compared the schedules with those of Mr. Trump’s predecessors. He appears to share most in common with Bill Clinton’s early days in office.2019’s Super Bowl ads: nostalgia, wokeness and depressing techO.K., so the game itself may have been a slog to watch, and the halftime show was forgettable. But for those of you who came for the ads, here are the themes that dominated — to the tune of $5.2 million per 30 seconds of airtime.The ’90s: Stella Artois featured Carrie Bradshaw from “Sex and the City” and the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Doritos put the Backstreet Boys front and center.Social consciousness: The dating app Bumble hired Serena Williams to urge women to “make the first move” in all parts of their lives. And Budweiser touted renewable energy in an ad featuring a cute dog.The downsides of tech: Olay’s spot showed the actress Sarah Michelle Gellar struggling to save herself from a home intruder when her phone’s facial-recognition software fails. An ad for Pringles featured a smart speaker bemoaning its existence. And TurboTax built an ad around a robot boy craving a late-night snack.Revolving doorApple reportedly removed Bill Stasior as the head of its Siri virtual assistant unit, though he remains at the company.Gianni Infantino is poised to win a second term as president of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body.SoftBank of Japan hired Sarah Lubman, most recently a partner at the Brunswick Group, as a partner in corporate communications.The speed readDeals• Spotify is said to be in talks to buy the podcasting company Gimlet Media. (NYT)• The drug companies Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene will pay about $304 million in fees to their investment banks for arranging their $74 billion union. (FT)• KKR is said to be weighing a sale of the chip-making equipment unit of Hitachi Kokusai. (FT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund is in talks to invest up to $1.5 billion in Guazi.com, a Chinese used-car sales platform. (Reuters)• Maoyan Entertainment, a Chinese movie-ticket giant, fell 2.7 percent in its Hong Kong stock debut on Monday, the latest flubbed I.P.O. by a Chinese tech company. (Reuters)Politics and policy• The senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders have proposed limiting corporate stock buybacks. (NYT Op-Ed)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, reintroduced legislation aimed at strengthening enforcement of antitrust laws. (Reuters)• Michael Bloomberg is said to be reconsidering running for president as Democratic primary voters appear to be favoring more liberal contenders. (Axios)• President Trump declined to commit to making public any final report by the special prosecutor Robert Mueller. (NYT)Trade• Chinese state-owned firms bought a million tons of American soybeans on Friday, a day after talks on a trade deal between Beijing and Washington yielded progress. (NYT)• Despite a possible U.S.-China agreement, global trade continues to suffer. (WSJ)• European investment funds are worried about their ability to trade dual-listed stocks like those of Unilever and Shell if Britain leaves the E.U. without a deal. (FT)Tech• Venture capitalists are telling start-ups to stockpile cash ahead of a potential economic slowdown. (FT)• Meet the man behind the egg picture that became Instagram’s most-liked image. Surprise: He works in advertising. (NYT)• Cisco wants a U.S. version of Europe’s strict new data privacy rules. (FT)• How lawmakers plan to update tech in Congress — including its 2000-era internet connections. (WSJ)• Foxconn said it was still committed to building a factory in Wisconsin. (NYT)• It’s not just you: Captchas — which you complete to prove you’re not a robot — have gotten far harder. (Verge)Best of the rest• Vice Media plans to lay off 250 workers. Here’s what went wrong for the company and for other digital news organizations like BuzzFeed. (FT, NYT)• McKinsey advised the maker of OxyContin on how to “turbocharge” opioid sales, a lawsuit alleges. (NYT)• Why taxing the wealthy is so hard. (NYT)• Gains from President Trump’s corporate tax cuts aren’t as impressive as they first appeared. (WSJ)• How China got MSCI to add its market to one of the world’s best-known global benchmarks. (WSJ)• Ikea plans to test furniture leasing. (FT)• Hershey blames manufacturing processes for missing tips on its Kisses. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Sony’s blockbuster share buyback misses the bigger picture at the company.Japan’s $55-billion electronics giant said on Friday that it would repurchase 100 billion yen, or about $911 million, worth of stock. Coming just days after the company reported disappointing earnings, that’s a sign of confidence from its chief executive Kenichiro Yoshida.To boost longer-term returns, though, he needs to convince investors that a much-needed deeper overhaul of the conglomerate is also underway.The buyback will be Sony’s largest ever. Just last week, the company announced a worse-than-expected fall in operating profit from its PlayStation console division, which is its cash cow business. That helped wipe $9 billion off the company’s market value in the days that followed. The latest move is already cushioning that blow: By late morning in Tokyo on Friday, Sony’s shares were up by as much as 5 percent.That should boost Mr. Yoshida’s standing with shareholders. Since taking over last April, the chief executive has presided over an 8 percent loss in share price as of Feb. 7, which is largely in line with Tokyo’s benchmark Topix index.The repurchase plan also shows that Sony’s balance sheet is stronger than it has been in recent years. Net cash, excluding the group’s financial services business, stood at 445 billion yen, or about $4 billion, as of December, up from 177 billion yen a year earlier. But the stock trades at roughly 11 times forward earnings — well below both its own two-year average and the 14 times multiple of its video-games rival Nintendo, according to Refinitiv data.An unruly conglomerate sprawl is to blame. Besides video games, music and movies, Sony also houses a capital-intensive semiconductors unit as well as a loss-making smartphones business. Unlocking value will require bolder steps, like spinning off its chip-making unit or exiting the smartphones business.A share bonanza, though welcome, will only go so far.SAN FRANCISCO — Snap lost millions of users last year after an unpopular redesign of Snapchat, its ephemeral-messaging app. Now that exodus appears to be slowing.The company said on Tuesday that it had stanched the flow of people leaving its platform. Snap’s daily active users totaled 186 million in the fourth quarter, the same as in the previous quarter and down just one million compared with a year earlier, after two consecutive quarters of falling user numbers. In addition, Snap’s revenue rose 36 percent to $390 million, while its net loss narrowed to $192 million.“Change is always difficult, and this past year was no exception,” Evan Spiegel, Snap’s chief executive, said in prepared remarks about the company’s earnings.The financial report, which sent Snap’s shares soaring more than 20 percent in after-hours trading, follows months of turbulence for the company. Since going public in 2017, Snap has been dealing with increasing competition from Facebook, including its core social network and its other apps, such as Instagram and WhatsApp.Last year, Snap redesigned its app, effectively separating social and media into two sections. Its users soon revolted, with celebrities like Kylie Jenner criticizing the change. A long-awaited update to Snapchat’s Android app has also yet to be fully rolled out.More recently, Snap has endured a wave of executive departures. The company said in January that its chief financial officer, Tim Stone, would leave, less than a year after he was hired last May. Imran Khan, Snap’s chief strategy officer, stepped down in September. That same month, the company lost Nick Bell, its vice president for content. Its head of hardware, Sahil Sharma, exited in December.On top of this, Snap is under scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department. The company said late last year that it had responded to subpoenas from those agencies regarding disclosures it made ahead of its initial public offering.In an earnings call on Tuesday, Mr. Spiegel said he planned to take time with the search for a new chief financial officer “and really get it right.”He said Snapchat users on Apple devices were starting to return to the platform and daily active use had increased among those people. Snapchat’s Android app update is also gradually being introduced to a small set of users, allowing them to open the app 20 percent faster, he said. Mr. Spiegel estimated that there were roughly two billion Android users who do not use Snapchat — and that luring even a small percentage of them to the app would “make a real difference.”Lara Sweet, Snap’s interim chief financial officer, said the company was “cautiously optimistic” that user numbers would not decline in the current quarter. In total, Snap said that it anticipated revenue of $285 million to $310 million during the current quarter.Still, Snap remains small compared with Facebook’s photo-sharing app Instagram, which has been rapidly gaining new users. Facebook announced during its earnings call last week that Instagram had 500 million daily active users of Stories, a feature that lets people share photos and videos that have a life span of 24 hours. Snapchat had pioneered the Stories feature.Wall Street analysts said they were relieved at Snap’s financial results.“This was by far the most hated stock of all of the internet, by 10 miles,” Brent Thill, a managing director at Jefferies who follows tech companies, said of Snap. “What they did was a step in the right direction. They’re not out of this yet, but this is step one.”Spotify is in advanced talks to buy the podcast studio Gimlet Media, according to two people briefed on the proposed deal, a move that could help the music streaming service improve its profit margins and reduce its dependence on the major record companies.The two people spoke Friday on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the talks publicly. Representatives of Spotify and Gimlet Media declined to comment.Since Spotify went public last year, it has increased its investment in podcasts, once a minor part of its offerings. A deal with Gimlet, the company behind popular podcasts like “StartUp,” “Reply All” and “Crimetown,” would greatly expand that portfolio.Gimlet, which was founded in 2014 by Alex Blumberg and Matthew Lieber, two veterans of public radio, has also recently moved into television production. “Homecoming,” an Amazon series starring Julia Roberts, is based on a fictional podcast from Gimlet.“We created an I.P. factory,” Mr. Lieber, the president of Gimlet, said in a recent interview with The New York Times. “We generate a lot of stories.”Spotify, which has 200 million users around the world, 87 million of whom pay for monthly subscriptions, has signed celebrities like Amy Schumer and Joe Budden to exclusive deals for podcasts, which the company promotes widely.Those shows can draw Spotify’s users to spend more and more time on the service. While music fans may revolt if a popular song or album has been held back — or “windowed” — from streaming for a few weeks, podcast listeners tend to be less bothered by such gaps.The more podcasts that Spotify’s users listen to, the less reliant the company becomes on the licenses it must regularly negotiate with the major record companies. Barry McCarthy, the company’s chief financial officer and a former finance chief at Netflix, has frequently told analysts that his goal is to improve Spotify’s profit margins.Music is by far Spotify’s greatest expense. According to its financial reports, its costs for content — which is primarily music — are equal to about 75 percent of the company’s revenue.Spotify shares have fallen about 30 percent since their peak in August. The stock closed at $137.21 on Friday, up 1.3 percent for the day.The talks were first reported by Recode.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]New York City will see a sharp drop in personal income tax collections this year, surprising city officials who now warn of a possible end to the nearly decade-long boom that accompanied Wall Street’s gains.Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Thursday that the city projects that it will receive $935 million less in income tax revenue than the previous year — echoing an even larger shortfall in New York State’s budget.State and city officials suggest several reasons for the decline, but most seem linked to Wall Street, with the stock market’s volatility at the end of 2018 having a ripple effect on municipal budgets, as well as to changes related to the 2017 Republican federal tax overhaul. That includes a short-term boom in tax revenue at the end of 2017 as some residents rushed to pay state, local and property taxes ahead of the new federal law.New York has long tied its fortunes to Wall Street; the securities industry accounts for a disproportionate share of the city’s wages, and taxes paid by the highest-earning 1 percent of New York taxpayers typically generate more than 40 percent of personal income tax receipts in the state.In recent years, that relationship has helped the state and city steadily increase their budgets; New York City, for example, has boosted its full-time work force to its highest level in history.But the stock market’s decline at the end of last year, when some indexes posted their worst monthly performances since the Great Depression, led to several factors that may have driven income tax revenues lower.The recent market drop, by coming late in the year, was particularly well-timed for investors looking to take advantage of investment losses to offset gains elsewhere in their portfolios. By taking those losses, investors would trim their overall tax burden, reducing tax revenue sent to the state and city.“New York has a lot of high earners and high net worth individuals who may have, at the end of the year, chosen to take capital losses,” said Jared Walczak, a senior policy analyst at the Tax Foundation, a right-leaning think tank. “That’s going to be a much bigger hit to New York than to a typical state.”Other states that depend heavily on high-income taxpayers for their revenues, such as California and Connecticut, also saw big drops in revenue late in 2018, according to Lucy Dadayan of the Tax Policy Center, a joint project of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution.The gaps also have prompted a deeper, and perhaps more troubling, question: Is this the new normal?“If this is actually a change in taxpayer behavior, long-term, and not a blip or an overcorrection,” said David J. Friedfel, the director of state studies for the Citizens Budget Commission, “then this is the new base.”A confluence of forces made for an especially choppy and unpredictable budget in the past couple of years.In making their predictions of shortfalls, city and state budget offices look at money from estimated tax payments that arrive during December and January, often from high earners with large investment portfolios. That two-month period is considered an “important bellwether,” according to a recent report from Moody’s Investors Service.Many taxpayers with significant investment profits, so-called capital gains, make big payments at the end of the year. But the bad stock market at the end of 2018 meant capital losses and fewer tax payments.It was the reverse in late 2017 and early 2018. Payments were inflated, as taxpayers navigated the new tax code. The pending changes created incentives for taxpayers to shift income and tax payments, either by waiting until the new rules took effect or to take advantage of the old system before it went away. The change in the law also spurred companies to pay out bonuses to workers, giving a temporary boost to tax revenues that will not be repeated this year.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, saw a different culprit for much of the state’s projected $2.3 billion shortfall, what he called “a diabolical, political maneuver” in the new tax rules to cap the so-called SALT deduction — something he said might be causing high earners to flee to tax havens like Florida.“For richer people, your tax liability could have gone up now $100-, $200-, $300,000,” Mr. Cuomo said on Tuesday. “And there is a tipping point where people say, ‘I love New York, but to spend another $300,000 in taxes? I’ll move.’”Many experts, however, were skeptical that the change in the SALT deduction, which placed a $10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions, was having as big an impact as Mr. Cuomo suggested.Michael Leachman, senior director of state fiscal research at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal think tank, noted that studies have generally found little evidence that millionaires decide where to live based on tax policy. And even experts who were more sympathetic to Mr. Cuomo’s argument doubted that there had been an exodus large enough to have a significant impact on state revenues in the short term.“I don’t think anyone else believes it’s responsible for a $2.3 billion shortfall,” said Mr. Walczak, of the Tax Foundation. “That sort of mass out-migration would have been much more evident than it has been.”The specter of a shortfall is likely to hang over coming negotiations over the state budget, due April 1, and any discussion of increasing funding for things like education, the state’s No. 1 cost. The State Assembly, in particular, is adamant that schools need billions of dollars more than Mr. Cuomo proposed in his budget on Jan. 15; a shortfall would be a powerful argument against that.The governor’s assertion of a $2.3 billion gap — as tax withholdings and estimated payments to the state fell in December and January — also comes with considerable caveats, including the fact that some economists believe that number could shrink as the April 15 tax deadline approaches and more people file their returns.Some budget officials in California, for example, and elsewhere say they believe that the new SALT deductions changed taxpayer behavior by removing the advantage to paying such taxes in December to use them as federal tax deductions. The officials remain optimistic that the revenue losses in December and January may dissipate as April tax deadlines approach.“Most if not all of this decline in December-January revenue is expected to be recouped in April,” according to H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for the California Department of Finance, when personal income tax returns are due.Legislative budget analysts in Albany also believe the final shortfall may shrink to less than $1 billion as people start to pay, and other New York officials have acknowledged that the state might see its financial situation improve as the year progresses, as taxpayers adapt to the new rules.“We know that April is also a time of great deal of activity around the April 15 date,” said Thomas DiNapoli, a Democrat, who appeared alongside Mr. Cuomo in Albany on Monday. “So, it’s not all gloom and doom but it is a message, of very, very serious concern.”In New York City, the 7 percent drop in personal income tax revenues was revealed as Mr. de Blasio released a preliminary $92.2 billion budget for next year. He called for $750 million in budget savings that could include cuts in some programs, although his overall proposed budget for next year still calls for a $3 billion increase in overall spending.These agency cuts are known as PEGs, programs to eliminate the gap, and budget watchdogs have long been after Mr. de Blasio to require them from agencies, but he has resisted until now. Each agency will be told to trim a certain percentage from its budget.The mayor said that the largest components of this year’s anticipated budget increase were the estimated $1 billion in higher labor costs and more than $600 million in new education spending for things like increased special education programs, 3K and charter school costs.Mr. de Blasio cautioned that the long economic expansion may be coming to an end, citing a possible trade war and the risk of another federal government shutdown. “We have some tough choices up ahead by any scenario,” the mayor said.William H. Gross, the “Bond King,” is going into retirement.Mr. Gross, who co-founded the investment firm Pimco in 1971 and built it into a $2 trillion colossus, entertained investors with quirky pronouncements over many decades. He left unceremoniously in a nasty dispute in 2014, and joined Janus Henderson Investments, which announced his retirement on Monday.“I’ve had a wonderful ride for over 40 years in my career,” he said in a statement, “trying at all times to put client interests first while inventing and reinventing active bond management along the way.”At Pimco, Mr. Gross controlled more bond money than anyone in the world. He advised the Treasury on the role of subprime mortgage bonds in the dark days of the financial crisis, and his colorful metaphors often enlivened the otherwise dreary discourse about fixed-income investing.In 2011, for example, he told me that investors were like complacent frogs sitting in a pot of slowly heating water.“Bond investors are receiving almost nothing for their money, and the situation is getting worse and worse,” he said. “But they’ve gotten used to it. They don’t realize how bad it is. And before they know it, well, they’ll be cooked.”His utterances in those days often moved markets, and his early-morning yoga ritual at Newport Beach, Calif., was widely chronicled.Early in his tenure at Pimco, Mr. Gross was known as a skillful bond trader who pioneered the use of mathematical models to eke out steady profits. He also gained fame as an analyst of broad economic trends, which he used to inform the firm’s investment strategy.He had a homespun style that he used in books aimed at a popular audience, like “Everything You’ve Heard About Investing Is Wrong!: How to Profit in the Coming Post-Bull Markets.” In that 1997 book, he said the solid returns produced by bonds would shield investors from the disappointments of the busts that inevitably followed boom markets in stocks.But Mr. Gross has not been a dominant figure in finance since he was forced out of Pimco amid accusations that he had mismanaged the firm, where he was a co-chief investment officer. Mr. Gross and Pimco settled a lawsuit over the dispute in 2017.While he set high expectations for himself, his second career at Janus Henderson was not impressive.In a 2016 interview with The New York Times, he said explicitly that he viewed himself as competing directly with the fund managers at Pimco. “My whole evening is dependent on whether I beat them,” he said. “You see, I have to prove it all over again. Every day.”Yet a quick look at the numbers suggests he may have been disheartened by his recent performance. Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained.Through most of Mr. Gross’s time at Pimco, however, his performance was splendid. In the 15 years through February 2014, for example, Pimco Total Return posted an annualized gain of 6.68 percent, versus 5.19 percent for the average intermediate-term bond fund. And his risk-adjusted returns over the long term were much better than average.Over the past 20 years, Janus Henderson said, Mr. Gross had donated $800 million to various philanthropies. He will continue to manage his own assets, which are considerable, and those of his family foundation, which is valued at $390 million.Although he was often revered as something of an oracle in his years at Pimco, his frequent pronouncements on the state of the markets and the economy were not always on the mark, even in his heyday.In May 2009, when the stock market was just entering a bull market that has lasted nearly 10 years, Mr. Gross told me that the market rested on precarious foundations. He warned against “jumping into a stock market that’s 35 percent higher than it was three months ago.”He predicted moderate “single-digit returns” for the next decade, well short of the double-digit returns that stock investors actually received.A year after moving to New York, Michael Dellon and Christos Livanos felt almost as if they were still living in their suburban hometown, Armonk, N.Y.“I don’t think there was a day that went by that we didn’t see someone from high school,” Mr. Livanos said. With at least four people from their old high school living in their Kips Bay apartment building, that wasn’t surprising. But they were also constantly crossing paths with acquaintances from college — Mr. Dellon went to Syracuse University and Mr. Livanos to Cornell — and craved some of the distance that usually comes with a move to a major metropolis.“It had a very dorm vibe,” Mr. Livanos said of their building. “Which is O.K. the first year out of college, but we definitely wanted a little bit of an upgrade.”At a social gathering at the apartment where Mr. Livanos’s older brother lived, they found out that one of his close friends, Andrew Cataldo, was planning to leave his place in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, because of the impending L train shutdown (which has now been canceled). Mr. Cataldo also grew up in Armonk, but was two years older and part of a different social circle, so he seemed like a good fit for the more adult lifestyle they were seeking.As they soon discovered, however, while they could leave their building in Kips Bay behind, the dormlike atmosphere was likely to follow them, as most Manhattan doorman buildings in their price range had a similar feeling.“We were finding a lot of flex three-bedrooms,” Mr. Dellon said, describing the common practice of allowing renters to create an extra bedroom by putting up a partition. “But that usually means cutting off the natural light in the living room.”$6,041 | FINANCIAL DISTRICTAndrew Cataldo, 26; Michael Dellon, 24; Christos Livanos, 24Occupations: Mr. Cataldo is a product development and innovation manager at Mastercard; Mr. Dellon is an ad sales executive at Zillow; and Mr. Livanos is a new market specialist at Mint House, a hotel start-up.Being down by the water: After the bustle of Kips Bay and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, all three appreciate the calm of living at the bottom of Manhattan. “The Seaport is one of my favorite parts of the city,” Mr. Livanos said. “Something about the cobblestones and smelling the ocean really brings me away from downtown Manhattan.”Not that it’s a ghost town: “There’s a big happy hour scene and a bunch of good restaurants,” Mr. Dellon said.Best apartment feature: The popcorn-maker Mr. Dellon’s mother bought as a housewarming present. “We use it all the time,” he said. “It’s great for when you watch a movie, and kind of healthy.”The hangout apartment: “When people come in, they always say, ‘Wow, it’s really nice,” Mr. Cataldo said. “I think there’s always an unspoken agreement amongst your friends about who has ‘the apartment’ — the place everyone wants to hang out.”Some management companies also seemed wary about renting to three men in their mid-20s. At one luxury building, they were passed over for an apartment that they qualified for financially. “We noticed that the building had an older demographic,” Mr. Dellon said. “I think they didn’t want three young guys living there.”Then Mr. Cataldo toured an apartment at 20 Broad Street, a new rental building next to the New York Stock Exchange, in the financial district. (Before it was converted into apartments, it housed offices for the Stock Exchange.)“It was so much nicer than any other place we saw,” Mr. Cataldo said. The building was also eager to have them: As it had opened just a month earlier, the management was offering concessions to tenants who signed while some of construction was still being finished.In many ways, the space was ideally suited to their needs. At about 1,400 square feet, it was much larger than other places they had seen, with a large living room that had good natural light. The apartment also had a quirk that other renters might find unappealing, but that didn’t particularly bother them: It was technically a one-bedroom, with a large master bedroom that had an en suite bathroom, and two windowless “home offices.”“We were skeptical at first about not having windows in two of the bedrooms,” Mr. Livanos said. “But we realized we’d mostly hang out in the living room. And sunless alarm clocks are only, like, $20.”They moved in last September, signing a 24-month lease with two months free, bringing their rent down to $6,041 a month. Mr. Cataldo, the resident elder statesman, got the master bedroom, as he is two years further along in his career and could afford to pay more.But Mr. Livanos and Mr. Dellon agreed that sharing the other bathroom still represents an upgrade from their previous place, where three people shared a single bathroom. And the bathroom has two sinks, which they see as a nice touch. Having a washer and dryer in the apartment is another.The open kitchen is far more high-end than those in the other apartments they saw — a feature much appreciated by Mr. Cataldo, who moonlights as a private chef when he is not working in product development at Mastercard. “Kitchens are usually kind of an afterthought in New York apartments,” he said. And the roommates have already had several dinner parties, with Mr. Livanos and Mr. Dellon acting as sous chefs.Wanting the décor to rise to the level of their new apartment, they laid out everyone’s wall art soon after moving in and decided what to hang in the common spaces. An iron wall sculpture that Mr. Livanos’s parents bought years ago at the Armonk art show got a prize position above the sofa; two autographed Yankees posters and a poster from the Newport Jazz Festival are also in prominent places.One thing that gave them pause was a print of a wolf in a suit, with dollar bills in the background, passed down from Mr. Livanos’s brother. It seemed a little too on the nose for three guys living in a former Stock Exchange building, they agreed.“We didn’t want to be the bros who put ‘The Wolf of Wall Street’ up,” Mr. Cataldo said. Still, it seemed a shame not to hang the wolf somewhere, so they compromised and put him at the end of a hall.At a New Year’s Eve party they gave this year, their friends didn’t hesitate to embrace the cliché, bringing bottles of Fireball whiskey, which now clutter the otherwise tastefully stocked bar cart. “Everyone was taking pictures in front of the wolf,” Mr. Livanos said.For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Do you have Presidents’ Day off? I hope so, and that you’re spending it someplace warm and dry, even if that’s just a nest of pillows your living room. The third week of February is the peak of winter drear, in my opinion, and we could all use a break from the gray skies and interminable drama in Washington. Whether you’re heading into a short workweek or not, here’s what to know when it starts, from the latest on President Trump and the wall to the market outlook from the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, and other business and tech news.FEB. 10-16What’s Up? A New Can of WormsSo much for negotiating. Congress passed a spending bill to keep the government open before the deadline on Friday, but the legislation only includes $1.375 billion for 55 miles of steel-post fencing along the southern border. That’s a fraction of the $5.7 billion for more than 200 miles of steel or concrete barriers that President Trump has been demanding for months. Mr. Trump responded by declaring a national emergency to tap into billions of dollars originally earmarked for other government projects. Critics view this action as an attempt to save face on his wall promises. But the move also raises questions about his executive powers, and will most likely be challenged in the courts. Not Such a Prime LocationAlexa, we hardly knew thee. Amazon abruptly canceled its plan to build a sprawling corporate campus (also known as HQ2) in New York City, citing backlash from government leaders, unions and residents. Although the company promised to bring 25,000 new jobs to the area, that wasn’t enough to drown out critics who opposed the cushy tax breaks and other financial incentives that New York lawmakers used to lure the tech giant to Long Island City, Queens. “A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward,’’ Amazon said in a statement on Thursday. It still plans to build another campus in Virginia. Tax TurmoilOh look, the dreaded tax forms in your mailbox: It’s that time again. To make this season even more painful, millions of Americans will get smaller tax refunds this year, or find that they owe money despite no changes in their salaries. Yes, the Trump administration’s tax overhaul was supposed to keep more money in your pocket, but the average refund for early filers was down 8.4 percent. What’s going on? For some taxpayers, it’s that certain deductions no longer apply. For others, it’s that less money was withheld from their pay last year. Either way, this isn’t what you want to hear from your accountant, and it could dampen consumer spending in the coming months. FEB. 17-23What’s Next? Buffett Takes StockIf you’re in the market for some corny investment jokes, look no further than Warren Buffett’s annual shareholder letter, which he will post on Saturday along with financial results for his company, Berkshire Hathaway. The third-richest man in the world, Mr. Buffett, 88, has used his yearly letters to deliver dad humor, nuggets of financial wisdom and insights into his big-picture view of the economy since 1965. Many people pore over his words for stock tips, but they’re also worth a gander if you're interested in learning from one of the most successful and experienced private investors in history. What the Fed Was ThinkingRemember when the Federal Reserve suddenly changed its mind about raising interest rates at its January policy meeting and adopted a more hands-off approach that sent markets into fits of glee? The Fed may offer more clues about its flip-flop when the minutes from that meeting become public on Wednesday. The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, has now indicated that the Fed won’t raise rates again until inflation accelerates — a reversal of previous policy. Higher rates are intended to keep the economy steady as it grows, so it’ll be interesting to learn why Fed officials felt compelled to take their hands off the levers. The Standoff Drags On. And On.If you hoped that American and Chinese officials might start making some real progress in resolving their trade war, sorry. Yet another round of talks concluded this past week with no resolution in sight, although they will continue this coming week in Washington. Mr. Trump is supposedly considering a 60-day extension to the looming March 2 deadline for a deal. If the world’s two largest economic powers can’t come to an agreement, the United States has threatened to impose punitive tariffs against Chinese goods, hurting consumers in both countries. The upside to giving negotiators more time is obvious: The tariffs could be avoided, or at least put off. The downside is that it leaves companies — and even entire industries, like soybean farming — in limbo for even longer. What Else?Surprise, surprise: Prime Minister Theresa May hit another setback over Britain’s fraught exit from the European Union when her own party splintered on Thursday. Speaking of hot water, Facebook may have earned itself a multibillion-dollar fine from the Federal Trade Commission over privacy violations. Elsewhere in big money: JPMorgan will be the first major American bank to roll out its own cryptocurrency, even though its chief executive called bitcoin “a fraud” back in 2017. And finally, can’t afford an engagement ring for your loved one? Consider this $1.30 plastic version.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Fears of a looming United States recession have subsided, with investors taking comfort that the Federal Reserve will continue to support economic growth.But warning signs keep flashing about the shaky fundamentals of the economy and therefore the stock market. The latest alarm bell is that Wall Street analysts are slicing their forecasts for how much big companies will earn in the months ahead.Halfway through the first quarter of the year, analysts now expect profits of companies in the S&P 500 to decline by 1.7 percent from the same period last year, according to data from John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet.That is a sharp reversal from the start of 2019, when the same analysts predicted that corporate earnings would rise by 3.3 percent compared with the first quarter of 2018. And in October, before the stock markets entered a downward spiral at the end of the year, analysts had anticipated that first-quarter earnings would leap by 6.6 percent.Corporate profits are by no means a perfect proxy for the health of the United States economy, the world’s largest. But they exert heavy influence over the direction of the stock markets.In the first nine months of last year, for example, an unexpected gusher of company earnings — up 20 percent from their previous levels — powered the S&P 500 to record highs. The fat bottom lines allowed investors to look past both the prospect of a trade war between the United States and China and a number of data points that showed large foreign economies, including Japan and Germany, losing steam.Even in the final three months of 2018, as the United States appeared to be skidding into an economic recession, corporate profits leapt higher. Not all companies have disclosed their fourth-quarter results yet, but they are on track to be up 13.3 percent from 2017.It isn’t unusual for analysts to pare back their earnings forecasts over the course of a quarter. Corporate executives offer guidance about how their businesses are performing, and a variety of macroeconomic data helps analysts hone their profit projections. Over the past decade, analysts’ profit forecasts have declined on average by 3.7 percent over the course of a full quarter.On Dec. 31, analysts expected companies in the S&P 500 to earn, on average, $40.21 per share. Today, that estimate is $37.95 — an unusually large 5.6 percent drop, according to FactSet.If companies’ first-quarter performances turn out to be as weak as analysts expect, the United States will be on track for what the financial community calls an earnings recession, which occurs when corporate profits shrink for two straight quarters.That looks increasingly likely to happen in the first half of this year. Analysts expect earnings to rise by just 1.2 percent in the second quarter. That forecast is likely to fall, perhaps into negative territory, as more companies disclose their results and analysts update their forecasting models.The S&P 500 last endured an earnings recession in 2015 and 2016. It was set off in large part by tumbling oil prices, which eroded the profits of energy companies. During that period, a six-year stock market rally stalled, and the S&P 500 twice fell by more than 10 percent.Corporate profits this year were always going to face a difficult comparison with 2018. The combination of a strong United States economy and the newly reduced corporate tax rates led earnings to jump more than 20 percent.But profits are now under pressure on multiple fronts, and there are no new tax cuts to cushion the blow — an ill omen for the stock market, if not the broader economy. Rising costs and a slowing global economy, in particular in China, have caused many S&P 500 companies to reduce their profit outlooks for 2019.That is especially true among technology companies. Analysts expect them to report a nearly 10 percent decline in profits in the first quarter, the biggest decline of any sector in the S&P 500.Much of the blame for the tech sector’s declining fortunes rests with Apple. The company warned in early January that it was seeing diminished demand for new iPhones in China. When it reported earnings, Apple said it expected sales of $55 billion to $59 billion in the current quarter, below analysts’ expectations for $59 billion.Since the end of last year, analysts have cut by nearly 19 percent their estimates for how much Apple will earn in the first three months of the year.Good Thursday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Say hello to JPM CoinJPMorgan Chase this morning announced the first cryptocurrency to be rolled out by a major U.S. bank.How will it be used? The new tokens, each of which represents a U.S. dollar, will help settle some payments between the bank’s clients. CNBC reports that the new digital coin will enter testing “in a few months.” It will facilitate a “tiny fraction” of its wholesale payments business.What’s the point? “Money sloshes back and forth all over the world in a large enterprise,” Umar Farooq, the head of JPMorgan’s blockchain projects, told CNBC. “Is there a way to ensure that a subsidiary can represent cash on the balance sheet without having to actually wire it to the unit? That way, they can consolidate their money and probably get better rates for it.”It also gives JPMorgan first-mover advantage. This will be one of the world’s first real-world crypto applications for banking, and the biggest move into the sector yet by an American lender. It also sets the bank up for a future in which crypto could be an integral part of the financial sector.The bank has come a long way on crypto. Its C.E.O., Jamie Dimon, famously declared Bitcoin a “fraud” in 2017 and said he would fire any employee caught trading it. (He later regretted his comments and added that he believed in the value of blockchain, the technology behind cryptocurrencies.)The threat of a government shutdown fadesCongress is expected to vote on a bipartisan border deal this evening that would ward off another government shutdown.President Trump may be resigned to signing it. “I don’t want to see a shutdown,” he told reporters yesterday. “A shutdown would be a terrible thing.”A lot of people need to be persuaded. Congressional leaders acknowledged that the bill doesn’t allow for the wall that Mr. Trump and his allies want. (White House aides spent yesterday pitching the legislation to the likes of Lou Dobbs and Sean Hannity.) But it assigns more money to border fencing and immigration detention than left-wing Democrats would like.Still, no one sees a better option. “As with all compromises, I say to people, ‘Support the bill for what is in it,’ ” Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters yesterday. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, warned his colleagues against letting “unrelated cynical partisan plays get in the way of finishing this important process.”It’s not done until Mr. Trump puts pen to paper. CNN reminds us that he backed out of a previous compromise at the last minute, triggering the longest-ever government shutdown. This time, he could try to find further border funding from elsewhere in the government to claim some sort of victory.The U.S.-China trade talks get seriousAfter three days of what Reuters calls “deputy-level meetings” in China, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, will embark on high-level trade negotiations in Beijing today.China is stepping up. The U.S. officials will meet today with Vice Premier Liu He, President Xi Jinping’s top economic adviser. According to the South China Morning Post, Mr. Xi himself may attend tomorrow.So far, it’s unclear what progress is being made. President Trump has said only that discussions are “going well,” adding that Chinese negotiators were “showing us tremendous respect.” Beijing has offered few details.But a deadline extension could help. America is scheduled to increase tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent if a deal isn’t reached by March 1. Mr. Trump has said he might let that slide; Bloomberg puts the possible deadline extension at 60 days.Europe fights the U.S. over ‘dirty money’Relations between Washington and Brussels soured yesterday after the E.U. added four American territories to a blacklist of money-laundering regions, Jack Ewing and Alan Rappeport of the NYT write.On the list: Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands joined an ignominious group that includes North Korea, Libya, Yemen and Saudi Arabia. European banks must apply greater scrutiny to any transactions in those areas.The E.U.’s rationale: “Dirty money is the lifeblood of organized crime and terrorism,” Vera Jourova, the European commissioner for justice, said yesterday. “It was high time for Europe to act.”The Trump administration’s response: The Treasury Department condemned the list as flawed and unnecessary, and complained that it “was not provided any meaningful opportunity to discuss with the European Commission its basis for including the listed U.S. territories.”Where things get tricky: “The deteriorating relationship between the longtime allies will complicate a resolution on trade,” the NYT notes. “Talks between the European Commission and the White House are on the back burner while the Trump administration focuses on resolving its trade war with China. But trade talks are expected to intensify in the coming months.”Airbus will stop building its giant jumboAirbus will cease production of its A380 passenger jet, Amie Tsang of the NYT reports:• “Citing reduced orders from Emirates Airline, a major customer, and an inability to find other buyers, the company said it would halt deliveries of the jumbo jetliner in 2021, although it said it would continue to support existing A380s.”• “The decision will lead to job cuts at Airbus, possibly as many as 3,500 over the next three years, and Airbus said it would start discussions in the next weeks about the consequences for its work force.”• “The A380 “was built for a time when crowded airports would demand that planes carry more people to reduce congestion. But flight traffic instead shifted to smaller planes, which are cheaper to maintain, flying to regional airports, a move that reduced demand for larger aircraft.”Was an Apple insider-trading lawyer insider trading?Federal authorities yesterday charged Gene Levoff, a former senior director of corporate law at Apple, with illegally trading on inside information, according to Dai Wakabayashi of the NYT:• “The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff violated insider trading laws three times from 2015 to 2016. On one occasion, Mr. Levoff sold roughly $10 million of Apple stock — nearly his entire holdings — from his personal brokerage account four days before Apple announced quarterly earnings on July 21, 2015.”• “The company’s stock price fell 4 percent after the earnings report, in which Apple revealed it had fallen short of analysts’ estimates for iPhone sales. Mr. Levoff had already seen a draft of the announcement and avoided about $345,000 in losses by dumping his Apple shares before the official announcement, the S.E.C. said.”• The S.E.C. said Apple cooperated with its investigation, and that Mr. Levoff was placed on leave in July and fired in September.• A lawyer for Mr. Levoff said in a statement, “Gene Levoff was a trusted Apple executive for many years, and has never before been accused of wrongdoing of any kind.”Brexit remains a messThe state of negotiations on Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. is still divided and confused, and Brussels doesn’t like what it sees.British lawmakers still don’t like Theresa May’s plan. They will debate and vote today on a series of amendments to her proposal. The main focus: a bid to rule out leaving without a deal. (Mrs. May insists that remain an option.)Britain’s opposition party, Labour, is divided. “Moderate Labour MPs are plotting to form a breakaway political party within weeks,” the FT reports, if their leader, Jeremy Corbyn, doesn’t back an amendment calling for a second referendum on Brexit.Surprise! Europe remains unimpressed. “E.U. leaders are still waiting for a signal from British Prime Minister Theresa May on the next steps in negotiating a critical divorce deal,” the WSJ reports. “In the meantime, they are losing confidence in her capacity to deliver a majority in her own parliament for any agreement.”More Brexit news: Britain so far has rollover arrangements for only about £16 billion, or $21 billion, of the £117 billion in E.U. trade deals it benefits from. Potential chaos could cause a surge in market abuse, according to a British financial watchdog. Switzerland will set quotas on British immigration in the event of a no-deal Brexit.Banks are merging faster. Should they?Analysts and investors think that BB&T’s proposed $28 billion takeover of SunTrust will spur a wave of bank consolidation. Such mergers would probably be completed more quickly than in the past, thanks to recent changes at the Fed and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, Lalita Clozel of the WSJ writes.How much faster? “The median time the Fed takes to approve or reject a bank merger receiving opposition from community groups — common in large deals — dropped to 3.8 months in the first half of 2018, from 5.6 months in the first half of 2017 and 7.0 months for all of 2015, according to a Fed report,” Ms. Clozel writes “At the O.C.C., the average time for handling all mergers dropped to 1.9 months in 2018, from 2.6 months in 2016, the agency said.”What changed? The Fed and the O.C.C. now review deals differently. One example: The O.C.C. says previous enforcement actions aren’t necessarily red flags that could kill a transaction.Banking deal makers are happy. “We were very pleased with the efficiency of the regulatory approval process,” said Kessel Stelling, the C.E.O. of Synovus, whose deal to buy FCB Financial Holdings won Fed approval in just four months.Others are not. Community groups, who usually press merging banks to increase lending in underserved areas, think they’re being sidelined. And Democratic lawmakers like Senator Elizabeth Warren worry that the new review regime may lead to “a wave of bank consolidation to the detriment of consumers and the financial system.”Revolving doorBlackRock has hired Stanley Fischer, the former vice chairman of the Fed, as a senior adviser.The speed readDeals• Levi Strauss plans to go public again, potentially giving its founding family a multibillion-dollar windfall. (FT)• Goldman Sachs reportedly considered buying the boutique investment banks William Blair and Harris Williams to gain mid-market corporate clients. (Bloomberg)• Johnson & Johnson agreed to buy Auris, which builds robotic tools to aid surgery, for $3.4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Four of Deutsche Bank’s biggest shareholders want deeper cuts to its investment bank. (FT)Politics and policy• Michael Bloomberg is reportedly willing to spend more than $500 million, on his own campaign or the Democratic nominee’s, to defeat President Trump in 2020. (Politico)• Fighting climate change and creating jobs are great goals. The Green New Deal may not be the best way to do either. (WSJ)• Republican senators threatened to vote against Andrew Wheeler, Mr. Trump’s pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, unless he promises to relax biofuel requirements. (Bloomberg)• Europe’s top antitrust cop, Margrethe Vestager, may have endangered her chances of leading the European Commission by vetoing a big rail merger. (FT)Trade• President Trump reportedly won’t rush to place tariffs on car imports. (FT)• His struggles in border wall negotiations may be a bad sign for the new North American trade agreement. (Bloomberg Opinion)Tech• It’s “an appropriate time for Congress to consider comprehensive internet privacy legislation,” a report by the Government Accountability Office says. (Axios)• Why hasn’t A.I. eaten your job yet? (MIT Technology Review)• Here’s a report card on America’s autonomous cars. Spoiler: Waymo’s still the team to beat. (WSJ)• Quadriga has “inadvertently” moved more Bitcoin into a wallet that only its deceased founder could open. (Bloomberg)• How Silicon Valley may be using trade secrets to hide race problems. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Wall Street’s move into residential real estate has come at a cost to tenants. (Atlantic)• Confidence in the economy has faded. Can it rebound? (DealBook)• Renault will cancel tens of millions of euros in scheduled compensation for Carlos Ghosn. Also: What if the auto executive had been charged in the U.S.? (NYT)• Why Santander ruffled feathers by delaying the repayment of a €1.5 billion, or $1.7 billion, capital bond. (FT)• Edward Lampert’s plan to resuscitate Sears? Small stores and fewer clothes. (WSJ)• The inside track on the struggle to control PG&E. (NYT)Happy Valentine’s Day!• Three months’ salary for an engagement ring? More like two weeks, actually. (NYT)• Online dating scams cost Americans $143 million last year. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.John Bogle, the father of low-cost investing, once said that the index fund was the “most successful innovation — especially for investors — in modern financial history.”It’s easy to see why. Index funds typically track a broad group of stocks, like all the companies in the Dow Jones industrial average or the S.&P. 500. Rather than trying to choose one or two winning stocks, or relying on the expertise of a mutual fund manager to do so, investors in index funds can buy a range of businesses and hold them to capture the long-term growth of the market. Because index funds generally don’t need ace stock pickers, they charge rock-bottom fees. Index funds are now the dominant force in investing, holding trillions of dollars of American assets.But there’s a problem: The indexes these funds are based on may not be as neutral as they seem. The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors.The Wall Street Journal recently reported that MSCI, one of the largest index providers in the United States, added Chinese issuers to its Emerging Markets Index after the Chinese government threatened to curtail MSCI’s business in the country. (MSCI told The Journal that its process for choosing firms in its index is “transparent and objective” and includes safeguards to maintain those standards.) Clearly, there needs to be transparency and accountability in index providers’ decisions. Conflicts of interest should worry anyone who is invested in index funds, which includes many Americans with retirement accounts. Index providers have enormous power. The decision to include a company in the S.&P. 500, for example, results in a reallocation of billions of dollars of investors’ money. The average company added to the S.&P. 500 gains value; when it’s removed, its share price drops as index funds sell their holdings.Even more worrying is recent research by Prof. Adriana Robertson of the University of Toronto, who documents the rise of highly customized indexes, which are developed for the use of a single fund. She shows that the index and the fund are frequently run by the same managers.Indexes like these start to look less like the objective benchmarks investors often believe they’re getting. Investors may not understand how the index works or whether it may be susceptible to undue influence.We saw the real costs of benchmark manipulation in the Libor-rigging scandal. In 2012, settlements with regulators and the Justice Department revealed that some of the world’s most influential banks had manipulated the Libor benchmark, which is used to determine borrowing costs across the economy. The abuses allowed banks to extract excess profits while raising interest costs for American homeowners and students. In response, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, under Commissioner Rostin Behnam, established a group to reform such benchmarks. There is no such group overseeing stock market indexes. While there are global standards for how indexes should be governed, American law remains remarkably silent on the subject.There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted. Some well-known indexes have established committees to decide which companies are included; for instance, the stocks in the S.&P. 500 index, which is tracked by mutual funds holding more than $1 trillion in assets, are chosen by committee. But these committees have enormous discretion.Indexes have influence over stock prices that even the largest investors can only envy. Given the conflicts of interest the index providers face and the power they wield over markets, we need a national conversation about how to ensure that they operate with integrity, transparency and accountability. Unfortunately, existing law is ill suited for the purpose.That’s why we’re calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans’ investment dollars are allocated. We need to bring more transparency and accountability to the way these companies use that influence.Robert J. Jackson Jr. sits on the Securities and Exchange Commission. Steven Davidoff Solomon is a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, Law School and director of its Center for Law and Business. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.SAN FRANCISCO — A former senior lawyer at Apple who oversaw the company’s insider trading policies was himself accused of insider trading by federal prosecutors and securities regulators in complaints made public on Wednesday.The Securities and Exchange Commission said in a suit that Gene Levoff, a former senior director of corporate law and a corporate secretary at Apple, repeatedly traded on inside information from 2011 to 2016.The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff violated insider trading laws three times from 2015 to 2016. On one occasion, Mr. Levoff sold roughly $10 million of Apple stock — nearly his entire holdings — from his personal brokerage account four days before Apple announced quarterly earnings on July 21, 2015.In a related action, federal prosecutors in New Jersey charged Mr. Levoff with one count of securities fraud in a criminal complaint.The company’s stock price fell 4 percent after the earnings report, in which Apple revealed it had fallen short of analysts’ estimates for iPhone sales.Mr. Levoff had already seen a draft of the announcement and avoided about $345,000 in losses by dumping his Apple shares before the official announcement, the S.E.C. said. But since the end of 2016, Apple’s share price has increased 47 percent.Kevin Marino, Mr. Levoff’s lawyer and a principal at the law firm Marino, Tortorella & Boyle, said he was reviewing the allegations against Mr. Levoff and looked forward to defending him.“Gene Levoff was a trusted Apple executive for many years, and has never before been accused of wrongdoing of any kind,” Mr. Marino said in a statement.According to the S.E.C., Mr. Levoff oversaw Apple’s corporate law group of 20 to 30 lawyers and paralegals. He was responsible for Apple’s compliance with securities laws and providing legal advice for the company’s S.E.C. filings and financial reporting. He also served as a corporate officer of every major Apple subsidiary.“As a member of the core group of senior Apple insiders entrusted with material nonpublic information, and as an attorney with a sophisticated understanding of securities and corporate law, Levoff knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that he had a duty of trust and confidence to the company and its shareholders,” according to the complaint filed in United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.The S.E.C. said he was placed on leave in July and fired in September.“After being contacted by authorities last summer, we conducted a thorough investigation with the help of outside legal experts, which resulted in termination,” an Apple spokesman, Josh Rosenstock, said in a statement.In an indication of how senior Mr. Levoff was at the company, he was part of Apple’s disclosure committee — a group that helps Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, and Luca Maestri, the chief financial officer, determine whether the company is meeting its responsibilities for providing accurate and timely disclosures to investors.At the time of his departure, Mr. Levoff reported to Katherine Adams, Apple’s general counsel. She replaced Bruce Sewell, who served as the company’s top lawyer for eight years until he stepped down in 2017.Mr. Levoff was responsible for ensuring compliance with Apple’s insider trading rules, including sending emails to individuals who were subject to trading restrictions around Apple’s quarterly earnings announcements. Apple’s insider trading policy said any individual with material, nonpublic information about the company was not allowed to trade the stock until 60 hours after that information had been announced.The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff also engaged in insider trading on three other occasions from 2011 to 2012. In each instance, Mr. Levoff received draft news releases and S.E.C. filings. He then bought thousands of shares of Apple stock before the public announcement. Shortly after the stock rose on the positive earnings announcements, Mr. Levoff sold the shares. He made approximately $245,000 in profits on those insider trading transactions.Before those transactions, Mr. Levoff sent emails to company employees alerting them that a blackout period was starting and that they were prohibited from trading Apple securities.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________The government shutdown and the late 2018 stock market tumult eroded confidence in the economy among business owners and consumers alike last month.Now that the stock market has rallied and the government has reopened, will optimism about the economy rebound, or is the recent slide an indication of a more lasting shift?In January, both the National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism index for small businesses and the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index fell to their lowest levels since at least November 2016. And the Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence posted its steepest decline over the past few months since 2011.Those three indexes had jumped in the months after Donald J. Trump was elected president on optimism that his pro-business agenda of reduced taxes and regulation would ignite economic growth. The indexes peaked last year as the stock market marched to record highs, and despite the recent pullback, they remain at historically elevated levels.Businesses, policymakers and investors often use sentiment surveys to evaluate the direction of the economy. If confidence is high, the thinking goes, business owners and consumers are more likely to open their wallets to make purchases, hire employees and expand their operations. If those same groups are worried about the future, they are more likely to curtail their spending.But upward swings in sentiment do not necessarily translate into increased spending and economic growth. The economy, for instance, remained sluggish for more than a year after consumer and business confidence jumped in the months after the 2016 election.Such indexes are also sensitive to short-term moves in the stock market and political developments that have little effect on spending.Indications that sentiment is set to rebound are beginning to appear. Economic confidence recovered in a poll conducted in early February for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey.The University of Michigan releases a preliminary version of its survey roughly halfway through each month and then its final report at the end. Last month, the final figure, although the lowest since October 2016, showed a slight uptick from the preliminary version, which was released during the shutdown. Also, the survey’s personal financial expectations index, considered a better indicator of household spending than the overall index, held up during the period.The university will release its preliminary consumer sentiment index for February on Friday.The report on small-business sentiment also offered reasons to think the slide in confidence may be temporary. Within the index, expectations among business owners about their sales and the overall economy had the biggest declines. But those segments typically have been the most sensitive to gyrations in the stock markets.Meanwhile, expectations for business spending, which had slid sharply since August, stopped declining.SAN FRANCISCO — Technology companies rarely make money before they go public. Twitter was unprofitable when it listed on the stock market. So were Snap, Spotify and SurveyMonkey.For Uber, the question as the ride-hailing giant prepares for a public offering is even bigger than whether it can make money. That’s because the company, the most prominent tech start-up of its generation, will set the bar for other well-known tech companies like Slack and Lyft as they also stampede toward the stock market this year.So far, Uber is not doing itself any favors on profits.The company reported on Friday that it had narrowed its net loss in the fourth quarter of 2018 from a year earlier. But excluding certain one-time items, including the sale of some of its businesses, Uber’s losses for the quarter rose 88 percent from the previous year, to $842 million.The losses were a result of Uber’s increasing its spending as it tries to outmuscle competitors, many of which have intensified their efforts to add riders and drivers. Uber has responded by offering bigger incentives and more promotions to fend off rivals like DoorDash, Lyft and other ride-hailing and food-delivery services.Uber made its financial disclosure as it hurtles toward what is set to be one of the biggest-ever public offerings by a tech company. A transportation colossus, Uber was privately valued at more than $70 billion last year, and proposals from investment bankers suggest that it could be worth as much as $120 billion after going public. The share sale will create enormous windfalls for Uber’s many investors, and for its founders and early employees.As a private company, Uber is not required to disclose financial results. But it has regularly done so over the past two years to inform investors about its business, and perhaps to keep the depth of its losses from coming as a surprise later.The latest set of figures, probably Uber’s last as a private company, will be closely scrutinized. Many investors initially give young and fast-growing tech start-ups a pass for losing money, but questions about whether such companies can ultimately be profitable eventually catch up with them. Investors criticized Twitter for racking up losses before it finally began to make money last year, and they have pushed down Snap’s share price since its public offering, partly because the company is still deeply unprofitable.In a statement, Uber’s chief financial officer, Nelson Chai, did not address the company’s losses. He said Uber had “maintained category leadership” in its ride-hailing business, and he noted other bright spots, including the company’s freight-management business and nascent e-bike and scooter program.Uber has a long history of spending large sums of money. Ride-hailing is inherently an expensive business that requires companies to expand into new markets for growth, pay to recruit drivers and lower prices to grab business away from competitors.Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber’s chief executive, has been under pressure to pare its losses, and the company has pulled out of money-losing markets like Russia and Southeast Asia.Some of the company’s losses have been overshadowed by its explosive growth. In 2018, Uber increased its total bookings — what it charges customers for rides and food delivery — to $50 billion, up 45 percent from 2017. Net revenue was $11.3 billion, a 43 percent increase.The company’s net revenue for last year’s fourth quarter was $3 billion, a 25 percent increase from a year earlier, and its gross bookings jumped 37 percent, to $14.2 billion. The company has $6.4 billion in cash, and its net loss was $865 million.But Uber’s profit margins have declined as it cut prices to match competitors and spent money on expanding its food-delivery business, Uber Eats. The margins are also smaller on Uber Eats orders because the company pays commissions to restaurants as well as delivery drivers.Uber’s self-driving car program, which will probably not yield revenue for years, continues to burn cash. The company returned its autonomous vehicles to public roads in December after a 10-month hiatus, which was prompted when one of its vehicles  fatally struck a pedestrian in Arizona.Federal Reserve officials decided in late January to pause their steady campaign to raise interest rates as the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened, according to the minutes of that meeting released on Wednesday.Fed officials concluded that a pause posed “few risks” for a strong economy in which prices continued to increase at a subdued rate, the minutes show. The Fed did not see any immediate threats to America’s economic expansion, but officials indicated they were worried enough about potential risks — including slowing growth in China and Europe, trade tensions, a volatile stock market and a prolonged government shutdown — to postpone rate increases.Whether the Fed will raise rates at all in 2019 remains unclear. The minutes show a divergence among Fed officials, with “several” saying they believed it would be appropriate to raise rates again later this year “if the economy evolved as they expected.” Others were less eager to resume the increases, particularly if inflation remained below the Fed’s 2 percent target.James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, suggested to reporters this month that the Fed had gone too far with rate increases last year. Other officials have said in recent days they expect rate increases to resume, a view the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland president, Loretta J. Mester, expressed in a speech this week.Markets found little new information in the minutes. The S&P 500, which had been negative earlier in the day, rose slightly. Treasury bond yields barely budged.The January meeting was a departure by the Fed from what had been a slow and steady march toward higher rates and less stimulative monetary policy amid a strengthening economy. After five consecutive quarters of raising rates, Fed officials left them unchanged in January, as expected. But they surprised markets in the policy statement released after the meeting, which dropped previous language that said “some further gradual increases” in interest rates would be warranted in the months to come.That shift appears to have been, in part, a corrective note to financial markets, which officials believed had turned volatile in December on the belief that Fed officials were not sufficiently worried about economic uncertainty at home and abroad — or willing to adopt more stimulative policy measures if those uncertainties turned into economic drags.The Fed’s communication after its December meeting, when officials raised rates by a quarter of a percentage point, “were reportedly perceived by market participants as not fully appreciating the tightening of financial conditions and the associated downside risks to the U.S. economic outlook that had emerged since the fall,” the minutes said.Officials worried in particular that investors did not have a clear picture of how the Fed planned to deal with the slimming of the bond portfolio it amassed in the wake of the financial crisis. In addition to lowering interest rates to near zero, the Fed tried to goose the economy by purchasing large quantities of mortgage bonds and Treasury securities, as a way to encourage investors to buy riskier assets, like stocks.The Fed has slowly been winnowing that $4 trillion portfolio by allowing up to $50 billion in bonds to mature each month, but officials appeared to agree in January that the balance sheet runoff should end this year.Officials agreed that “it would be desirable to announce before too long a plan to stop reducing the Federal Reserve’s asset holdings later this year” and said the announcement “would provide more certainty about the process for completing the normalization of the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet.”The minutes also highlighted just how hard it is for the Fed, which does not traffic in plain language, to always effectively communicate its plans. At the January meeting, Fed officials noted that investors were perceiving the central bank to be “insufficiently flexible” in both its rate increase campaign and its balance sheet runoff.Fed officials tried to change those perceptions after both the December and January meetings. The Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said in a news conference on Jan. 30 that officials had concluded that recent economic developments — including slowing global growth, turmoil in financial markets and uncertainty over trade negotiations — had pushed the central bank to “a patient, wait-and-see approach regarding future policy changes.”“We are now facing a somewhat contradictory picture of generally strong U.S. macroeconomic performance, alongside growing evidence of crosscurrents,” Mr. Powell said. “At such times, common sense risk management suggests patiently awaiting greater clarity.”Curt Long, the chief economist at the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions, said the minutes revealing the shift to a more “patient” stance were “certainly a nod to jittery markets.”Greg McBride, the chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com, was more blunt: “It’s evident the Fed was rattled by the markets and caved,” he wrote on Wednesday.The minutes show Fed officials saw little downside to the shift. They show officials “pointed to a variety of considerations that supported a patient approach to monetary policy,” including the need for additional economic data, which would help policymakers better gauge business and consumer sentiment.The Fed also believed that being patient would allow more time to determine the effect of President Trump’s trade war with China and other countries and the economic damage from the prolonged government shutdown, which had not been resolved at the time of the January meeting.“Information arriving in coming months could also shed light on the effects of the recent partial federal government shutdown on the U.S. economy and on the results of the budget negotiations occurring in the wake of the shutdown, including the possible implications for the path of fiscal policy,” the minutes said.The pause had its desired effect with investors, as markets celebrated that news with a rally that has since continued.Other critics of the Fed’s interest rate campaign also appear to have been pleased. Mr. Trump — who has repeatedly criticized the Fed for raising interest rates — dined with Mr. Powell soon after the meeting. Many liberal economists also cheered the move to slow rate increases, saying it would help workers by continuing to buoy the labor market and potentially raise wages.AMSTERDAM — If anyone in the Netherlands is happy about Britain jilting the European Union, they keep that sentiment to themselves. The country has been built on trade, with huge volumes of goods flowing from its ports across the English Channel. Brexit, as the divorce is known, has proved disruptive.But if Brexit is going to happen, the graceful, canal-lined city of Amsterdam is intent on exploiting what opportunities present themselves. The deputy mayor has been leading a team that is courting global companies abandoning Britain.“I’m very sad about Brexit, but I’m happy about how things are going for Amsterdam,” said the deputy mayor, Udo Kock, adding that at least 30 companies had already chosen to relocate. “It is such a nice city to live in. Who wouldn’t want to live in Amsterdam for a few years?”As Britain slides toward a tumultuous exit from the European bloc, cities on the Continent are looking on with a mixture of opportunism and dread. From Amsterdam to Paris to Frankfurt, officials have been wooing companies seeking refuge from an increasingly uncertain United Kingdom. Yet many are bracing for Brexit-related chaos at ports.Communities on both sides of the channel are already contending with economic weakness as the prospect of a no-deal Brexit discourages investment. Britain’s economy expanded just 1.4 percent last year — the slowest pace since 2012 — and actually contracted in December, according to data released on Monday.Above all, a sense of resignation has taken hold that even before Brexit begins, it has delivered changes that are almost certainly permanent. Companies have moved jobs from Britain to the Continent while applying for local licenses to prevent ruptures to their businesses. The European Medicines Agency, which regulates pharmaceuticals, is in the final stages of closing its London headquarters and moving to Amsterdam. Bankers and traders have shifted parts of their operations.Whatever happens next, none of that is going back.[Where Europe would be hurt most by a no-deal Brexit.]Amsterdam has largely struck out in attracting global banks, most of which have picked cities where they already have offices, especially Frankfurt. Bankers have taken umbrage at Dutch laws that limit the size of bonus payments.But the city has landed other elements of the financial industry, including asset managers and traders. Last month, Japan’s Norinchukin Bank selected Amsterdam as the site of its European branch. A trading platform for Bloomberg and Turquoise, a unit of the London Stock Exchange, both picked Amsterdam.“We had about 100 institutions that came to see us,” said Gerben Everts, a member of the executive board at the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, which regulates financial services companies. “At least 30” had submitted applications for licenses to operate in the Netherlands, he added.Ever since the June 2016 referendum that set Brexit in motion, the Netherlands has looked on with alarm. Britain is its third-largest trading partner, after Germany and Belgium. The port at Rotterdam is the largest in Europe. Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport is a major corridor for air cargo, and a crucial transit point for the Dutch flower industry.Throw a wrench into any of that and large numbers of people are going to wind up poorer.Mr. Kock, Amsterdam’s deputy mayor, is an economist by trade who once worked for the International Monetary Fund. The economy of Amsterdam’s metropolitan area is about 160 billion euros, about $181 billion, a year, he said. Brexit appears likely to shave about €1 billion off that total.“That’s two or three thousand jobs,” he said.In pursuit of compensation, the city’s economic affairs agency has been trying to attract new jobs.Landing the European Medicines Agency was significant. The regulator employs 900 people. It is building an office tower that will be its new headquarters on the southern reaches of Amsterdam, across a highway from a futuristic hotel designed by the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas.With the regulator shifting here, Mr. Kock and his team have focused on attracting companies within its orbit, including drugmakers, law firms and insurance companies that serve the pharmaceutical industry.The group conducts tours of Amsterdam, talking up the city’s attributes: swift internet links; a creative work force; an easily accessible airport with more than 300 direct connections to points around the globe.“We have taken a very Dutch approach — modest, but solid and persuasive,” Mr. Kock said. “We didn’t go around London like vultures seeking companies, or lavish them in the palace with seven-course dinners. We offer them coffee with a cookie.”Is that a dig at Paris, where officials have deployed French culinary prowess toward luring investment banking jobs? Mr. Kock grins mischievously.Bringing the medicine regulator has already helped one industry: the relocation business.Ten years ago, Roz Fremder moved to Amsterdam from Boston with her husband, who had taken a job in the chemical industry. She started her own company, Expat Help, which guides newly arriving families as they look for housing, schools and health providers. Early last year, the company secured its largest contract, a deal to help workers with the medicines agency relocate from London.On a recent afternoon, Ms. Fremder walked the eerily devoid corridors of the medicines agency’s former headquarters in the Canary Wharf section of London. About 120 employees had already moved to the Netherlands. An additional 530 were set to complete the trip in 2019, with many of them working from home in the interim. The building will be closed at the end of February.Inside, Ms. Fremder’s team ran a help center for relocating employees. The walls were decorated with drawings of Dutch clogs, windmills and tulips along with a color map of the Netherlands.“There’s so many things people haven’t thought of when you get down to these last days,” Ms. Fremder said. “Like whether their Netflix and Spotify accounts will work when they get there. Whether their appliances will work. I had one lady send me a photo of her phone jack.”Expat Help has doubled in size, to 20 employees from 10. It is about to open a London office in the Shoreditch neighborhood to serve other companies moving to Amsterdam.Which makes Ms. Fremder a clear beneficiary of Brexit. “It has been an opportunity for us,” she said.Political leaders in Britain could still conceivably call off Brexit before the March 29 deadline, or they could perhaps opt for another referendum. Even then, the movements across the channel appear irreversible.“What I hear from the institutions that opted for a license,” Mr. Everts, of the Dutch financial regulator, said, is: “‘Irrespective of how hard the Brexit would be, we are going to move anyway because there’s no way back. We have changed our I.T. We have hired or bought offices here. We have our people.’ They need to have the certainty that this is going to start.”Elmer de Bruin spends much of his day taking phone calls from businesspeople anxious about Brexit. He is the head of international affairs for the Dutch Association for Transport and Logistics, a trade association that represents 5,200 companies. Many of them transport Dutch wares — from garden plants to machinery — across the English Channel.Mr. de Bruin dispenses a standard tool kit of advice. Companies should apply for permits that allow them to ship goods from the Netherlands to Britain after Brexit. Now, shipments proceed without bureaucratic hindrance, because both countries are members of the European single market. After Brexit, Britain will become a foreign country separated by a border.But Mr. de Bruin acknowledged that options were limited, because no one knows what is about to happen.In London, Parliament has rejected an unpopular deal  negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May that would separate Britain from the bloc but leave it subject to European rules as a way of avoiding a hard border across Ireland. Lawmakers have failed to muster a majority for a version of Brexit that can win favor in Brussels.That Britain will crash out of Europe absent a deal, unleashing chaos on world markets, is an increasingly imaginable possibility.“We say prepare for the worst and hope for the best, but we don’t know what the worst is,” Mr. de Bruin lamented. “It’s out of our reach.”He assumes that the Dutch authorities will do what they can to avoid hindering trade, including coordinating customs and immigration checks.“Our worry is the other side,” he said. “They don’t have the infrastructure and the technology. They will never be able to cope with the enormous flow.”At the English port of Dover, 10,000 trucks proceed every day without fuss bearing cargo between Britain and the Continent. An additional 500 trucks pass through Dover from countries outside the European bloc. They sit there for as long as a half-hour, submitting to inspections and customs procedures.Brexit could turn much of the fast lane into a profit-killing purgatory. Cargo like fresh meat and fish would be vulnerable to spoiling.“It’s really going to hit us,” said Paul Smit, a sales manager at Windhorst, a trucking company. “All the Dutch people are extremely worried.”His company hauls garden plants and trees from Dutch nurseries, with 70 percent of the cargo bound for Britain via ferry. With 100 trucks in its fleet, the company has delayed plans to buy 20 or 30 more, given worries over Brexit.Reimposing customs checks after a quarter-century of unimpeded trade will eliminate flexibility, Mr. Smit complained. Now, Windhorst loads as many trees as can fit into a trailer. Once a customs regimen is in place, it will need to enumerate precisely what it plans to carry — say, 300 fir trees — and then cease loading even if more space remains.“I’m getting so fed up with this Brexit,” Mr. Smit said. “You’re not doing anything else other than talking about this.”Armchair investors have been selling stock. So have pension funds and mutual funds, as well as a whole other category of investors — nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms and personal trusts. The stock market is off to its best start since 1987, but these investors are expected to dump hundreds of billions of dollars of shares this year.So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves. American corporations flush with cash from last year’s tax cuts and a growing economy are buying back their own shares at an extraordinary clip. They have good reason: Buybacks allow them to return cash to shareholders, burnish key measures of financial performance and goose their share prices.The surge in buybacks reflects a fundamental shift in how the market is operating, cementing the position of corporations as the single largest source of demand for American stocks. The binge has helped sustain a bull market approaching its 10th birthday, even in the face of political, international and economic uncertainty. Since the market rally began in March 2009, the S&P 500 has risen more than 300 percent as the United States recovered from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. But few expect those kinds of gains over the next decade. Facing the prospect of a period of relatively low returns — or even a bear market for stocks — many investors are eager to protect their gains or to find more appealing investments, like emerging markets and corporate bonds, outside the American stock market. “There’s no reason to be a hog,” said Rich Robben, interim chief investment officer of the Kentucky Retirement Systems, which manages more than $17 billion in the state’s retirement and insurance funds. “We’ve all eaten at the public equity trough very well for 10 years now. And we felt it was just time to reduce that exposure a bit.”Mr. Robben said his pension fund, which pays benefits to more than 100,000 retired state and county workers, has been cutting its stake in the domestic stock market for 18 months. Such prudence paid off late last year, when concerns about a sluggish global economy, rising interest rates and slowing corporate profits hit the market. The S&P 500 fell 14 percent in the fourth quarter, and 9 percent in December alone. That was the worst monthly performance since February 2009, and badly shook investor confidence. Since the worst of the sell-off, on Dec. 24, the S&P 500 is up roughly 19 percent. But data show that many investors remain nervous: In every week this year, money has flowed out of domestic stock market mutual funds and exchange-traded funds — as much as $15 billion in the last week of January, according to EPFR Global, which tracks flows into and out of funds. These investors, overwhelmingly individuals, have moved money into bonds and cash. Henry Crutcher has missed a bit of the rebound. Mr. Crutcher, a 44-year-old software company owner in Atlanta, saw December’s crack in the stock market as a buying opportunity and moved roughly 10 percent of his portfolio from cash into a Russell 2000 exchange-traded fund. After enjoying a couple weeks of rising stock prices, he sold it, missing much of the roughly 10 percent of additional gains that have come since mid-January.“Right now I’m partially invested,” Mr. Crutcher said. “I’m not totally sitting on the sidelines. But I’m more on the sidelines than I think I should be.”Survey data suggests portfolio managers at many mutual funds and hedge funds have also been skittish about chasing the market higher. A survey of global fund managers by Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month reported that those holding more money in cash than usual outnumbered their stock-friendly counterparts by 44 percentage points — the biggest margin since January 2009. Such statistics suggest that many investors failed to capitalize on the sharp snapback in stocks early this year. “The speed of the rally is uncomfortable,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “To turn from a seller to a buyer in a week is, again, psychologically very tough for people.”Corporations, however, don’t seem to be experiencing such angst. In the fourth quarter last year, American companies bought an estimated $240 billion of their own shares, according to an analysis by the Goldman Sachs team that handles stock buybacks for major companies. That’s nearly 60 percent higher than during the same period in 2017. More buybacks are coming. The Union Pacific railroad has bought nearly $32 billion in its own shares since 2007, and this month authorized buying over $20 billion more. The tech equipment giant Cisco has spent roughly $20 billion on buybacks in the past year, and has authorizations to spend another $24 billion. And Bank of America, which planned to buy $20 billion of its own shares by the end of June, just added $2.5 billion on top of that, the bank said this month.Besides returning cash to shareholders, buybacks offer companies two crucial benefits. They increase demand for a stock, helping to prop up share prices. Buybacks also improve a key gauge of profitability closely tracked by investors and analysts: When a company buys back shares, the same profits are spread over the smaller number of shares still outstanding, improving their earnings-per-share number. So far this year, companies have announced plans to repurchase a total of more than $190 billion of their own shares. That is only slightly behind last year’s pace of buyback announcements. And last year was a record for buybacks, as companies, in part thanks to the Trump administration’s tax cut, gobbled $910 billion of their shares, according to an analysis by Goldman Sachs. Before the early 1980s, buying shares with corporate money was considered a legal gray area because it might open a company up to charges of manipulating its share price. In 1982, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule that allowed share repurchases, provided they followed certain rules.Since then, stock buybacks have largely replaced dividends as companies’ preferred way to return to shareholders the cash they can’t spend productively. Shareholders like buybacks because they reduce the numbers of shares outstanding, which results in each remaining share being worth a bigger slice of the company. Taxes on buybacks can also be deferred until investors sell the shares, which are then taxed as capital gains. While share buybacks tend to increase companies’ share prices, critics blame them for stymieing corporate investment, hiring and wages. They argue that when a company spends its cash on buybacks, it leaves less money available for long-term capital spending and wages. Supporters of buybacks argue, however, that companies won’t make new investments or increase hiring if they don’t see a profitable reason to do so. They contend that banning buybacks would simply result in higher dividend payments and corporate cash holdings or a surge in mergers and acquisitions. Senators Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, and Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, said this month that they planned to introduce legislation that would limit buybacks for companies that did not pay their workers at least a $15 an hour, among other criteria. Also this month, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said he planned to introduce a bill that would change the preferential tax treatment of buybacks, though the details of such an approach remain unclear. But even if such proposals were enacted — and few Republicans have voiced support for Mr. Rubio’s idea — it’s not clear that they would derail the stock market’s ever-higher march. A number of other factors — most notably the Federal Reserve’s abrupt turn away from its clockwork pattern of interest-rate increases — have combined to restore confidence since the brutal sell-off that left the S&P 500 down nearly 20 percent for the year on Christmas Eve.The arrival of a solid, if unspectacular, batch of fourth-quarter earnings reports also quelled some investors’ fears about the outlook for the global economy and corporate profits.But the persistent flow of corporate money into the stock market has been a pivotal element in its recent rise. “Buybacks are likely the No. 1 cause,” said Brian Reynolds, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, a Canadian asset management and brokerage firm. Buybacks’ importance to the rally means any legislative push that results in less activity could act as a headwind to stocks, said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at the brokerage firm Weeden & Company. But if such changes don’t gain a foothold, corporate buying will most likely remain a cornerstone of the stock market in the coming years. This year alone, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated, corporations will be by far the largest buyer of shares, with net purchases of $700 billion. Traditional investors like mutual funds, pensions, endowments and individuals are expected to be net sellers, parting with roughly $400 billion in shares. To the Editor:Re “Workers Before Buybacks,” by Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders (Op-Ed, Feb. 4), calling for the limitation of corporate stock buybacks:The senators seem to believe that they know how best to allocate capital across our $20 trillion economy. Limiting stock buybacks disincentivizes aspiring entrepreneurs to go public and hinders individual shareholders and retirees from building equity.Management and boards of directors for public companies have a fiduciary obligation to maximize long-term appreciation for their shareholders. This requires a thorough knowledge of the company’s growth, capital needs and stock valuation. Policymakers interfering with this fiduciary obligation undermine the free market, possibly leading to unintended consequences for the investor.As shareholder values fall, stock returns to investors will be noncompetitive, and the spotlight will shine on the leaders of the company that made poor capital allocation decisions. Government policy has no business meddling with capital allocation. Boards should take full responsibility for the decisions that affect their shareholders.French Hill WashingtonThe writer, an Arkansas Republican, is a member of the House Financial Services Committee.The stock market rout that occurred at the end of last year hurt Berkshire Hathaway’s 2018 profits, at least on paper.The conglomerate controlled by Warren E. Buffett suffered losses of $25.4 billion in the fourth quarter, according to Berkshire’s annual report that was released on Saturday. The company owns $173 billion of stocks and the market’s swoon in the fourth quarter helped cause losses of $22.7 billion on those securities. Berkshire also recorded a $3 billion noncash loss related to its large stake in Kraft Heinz, the struggling food company. (Stocks, of course, have recovered this year, and Berkshire’s losses may now be smaller.)In his annual letter to Berkshire’s shareholders that accompanied its results, Mr. Buffett urged investors to focus on the performance of Berkshire Hathaway’s broad array of companies, which includes insurers, energy firms, railways and manufacturers. These firms did well last year, posting a 36 percent increase in earnings.Before 2018, Berkshire did not include the performance of its stock holdings in its income statement, unless it sold the shares. But a new accounting rule requires that the company include the paper gains and losses. That is something Mr. Buffett has criticized, saying the rule would cause “wild and capricious” swings in Berkshire’s bottom line. In this year’s letter, he wrote, “Indeed, in the fourth quarter, a period of high volatility in stock prices, we experienced several days with a ‘profit’ or ‘loss’ of more than $4 billion.”Problems at Kraft Heinz, which on Thursday reported weak fourth-quarter earnings and a $15.4 billion write-down, also weighed on Berkshire, which owns a nearly 27 percent stake in the food company.If Kraft, among Berkshire’s biggest holdings, fails to revive its business, Mr. Buffett’s reputation as a savvy investor could take a hit. His partner in the food maker, a Brazilian investment firm called 3G Capital, has pursued a strict cost-cutting strategy that may now be showing diminishing returns.Here’s a look at some of the other highlights from the letter:What to do with all its cash? BuybacksBerkshire joined the buyback boom last year, modestly.The company bought back $418 million of its own shares during the final three months of 2018, bringing its total for the year to just over $1.3 billion.That activity will probably continue. “It is likely that — over time — Berkshire will be a significant repurchaser of its shares,” Mr. Buffett wrote in his letter to shareholders.Flush with cash from the $1.5 trillion tax cut, American companies bought back almost $800 billion of their own stock last year, a record amount. By reducing the number of shares outstanding, the buybacks can help boost the companies’ stock prices. And companies often buy back their shares when they believe they have nothing better to do with their money than return capital to shareholders.There are signs of that at Berkshire. Over the years, Mr. Buffett has mostly avoided repurchasing Berkshire’s shares, arguing that he could generate better returns for shareholders through investments.But as the price to acquire big companies has risen in recent years, Berkshire hasn’t made any big deals. That has led Mr. Buffett, who in the past has disparaged corporate buybacks, to consider repurchasing Berkshire’s stock.This summer, Berkshire lifted its restrictions on the price at which price Mr. Buffett could buy back shares. In the third quarter, it bought back $928 million worth.So far, Berkshire’s buyback spending has been fairly modest, and in his letter, Mr. Buffett warned of caution in the future.“Obviously, repurchases should be price-sensitive: Blindly buying an overpriced stock is value destructive, a fact lost on many promotional or ever-optimistic C.E.O.s,” Mr. Buffett wrote.Berkshire vs. the S&P 500One of Mr. Buffett’s goals each year is to beat the S&P 500 stock market index. Last year, Berkshire did.In 2018, the company’s book value rose 0.4 percent and its stock price climbed 2.8 percent. By comparison, the S&P 500 lost 4.4 percent, counting dividends.For years, Mr. Buffett’s preferred measure of Berkshire’s performance was the company’s book value as compared with the S&P 500, and he would highlight the annual rise and fall of both on a table in the letter.But beating the S&P 500 became more difficult as Berkshire grew and shifted to buying whole companies. In 2014, Mr. Buffett added the annual performance of Berkshire’s stock price to the table.“The fact is that the annual change in Berkshire’s book value — which makes its farewell appearance on page 2 — is a metric that has lost the relevance it once had,” Mr. Buffett wrote in this year’s letter.Why no deal making?Berkshire has grown by spending large chunks of money to acquire other companies. That remains part of its long-term plan, according to Mr. Buffett’s letter, but the current business climate means that it’s temporarily on hiatus.“In the years ahead,” he wrote, “we hope to move much of our excess liquidity into businesses that Berkshire will permanently own. The immediate prospects for that, however, are not good: Prices are sky-high for businesses possessing decent long-term prospects.And if you were in any doubt about Mr. Buffett’s appetite for huge deals, he paints a vivid picture about just how much he’d like to bag one.“We continue, nevertheless, to hope for an elephant-sized acquisition,” he wrote. “Even at our ages of 88 and 95 — I’m the young one — that prospect is what causes my heart and Charlie’s to beat faster. (Just writing about the possibility of a huge purchase has caused my pulse rate to soar.)”Don’t fret the United States’ budget deficitMr. Buffett also seems to have become more relaxed about the federal budget deficit, which has recently been getting bigger.In the 2018 annual report, he wrote: “Those who regularly preach doom because of government budget deficits (as I regularly did myself for many years) might note that our country’s national debt has increased roughly 400-fold during the last of my 77-year periods.”Investors buying gold to try and protect themselves from the rising debt and the prospect of ballooning deficits would have made a mere fraction of what they would have earned in the United States stock market over the 77 year period, Mr. Buffett noted. (Mr. Buffett first invested in an American business 77 years ago.)“The magical metal was no match for the American mettle,” he said in the report.Succession plans remain a secretEvery year, investors carefully read Mr. Buffett’s letter for clues about Berkshire’s succession plans. They didn’t get any on Saturday.Mr. Buffett did, however, champion his two most senior lieutenants. At the start of 2018, Berkshire Hathaway promoted two of its longtime executives, Gregory E. Abel and Ajit Jain, to oversee the company’s businesses. Mr. Abel became vice chairman of the conglomerate’s non-insurance businesses; Mr. Jain is vice chairman of Berkshire’s insurance operations.In his letter on Saturday, Mr. Buffett said this: “I want to give you some good news — really good news — that is not reflected in our financial statements. It concerns the management changes we made in early 2018, when Ajit Jain was put in charge of all insurance activities and Greg Abel was given authority over all other operations. These moves were overdue. Berkshire is now far better managed than when I alone was supervising operations. Ajit and Greg have rare talents, and Berkshire blood flows through their veins.”Quips and quotesMr. Buffett’s annual letter has become known for its investment advice and folksy wisdom as well as a few corny jokes. Here are some of the best lines from this year’s. (The Charlie they mention is Charles T. Munger, Mr. Buffett’s vice-chairman at Berkshire Hathaway.)On accounting fraud: “Over the years, Charlie and I have seen all sorts of bad corporate behavior, both accounting and operational, induced by the desire of management to meet Wall Street expectations. What starts as an ‘innocent’ fudge in order to not disappoint ‘the Street’ — say, trade-loading at quarter-end, turning a blind eye to rising insurance losses, or drawing down a ‘cookie-jar’ reserve — can become the first step toward full-fledged fraud. Playing with the numbers ‘just this once’ may well be the C.E.O.’s intent; it’s seldom the end result.”On paying tax: “Begin with an economic reality: Like it or not, the U.S. Government ‘owns’ an interest in Berkshire’s earnings of a size determined by Congress. In effect, our country’s Treasury Department holds a special class of our stock — call this holding the AA shares — that receives large ‘dividends’ (that is, tax payments) from Berkshire. In 2017, as in many years before, the corporate tax rate was 35 percent, which meant that the Treasury was doing very well with its AA shares.”On using debt: “Many managers, it should be noted, will disagree with this policy, arguing that significant debt juices the returns for equity owners. And these more venturesome C.E.O.s will be right most of the time. At rare and unpredictable intervals, however, credit vanishes and debt becomes financially fatal. A Russian roulette equation — usually win, occasionally die — may make financial sense for someone who gets a piece of a company’s upside but does not share in its downside. But that strategy would be madness for Berkshire. Rational people don’t risk what they have and need for what they don’t have and don’t need.”Kraft Heinz, the food giant whose products include Jell-O and Oscar Mayer meats, on Thursday released a surprising batch of bad news that included a multibillion dollar write-down signaling a plunge in the value of some of its most famous brands.In addition to the $15.4 billion write-down, Kraft Heinz said that last year it had received a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission related to an investigation into the company’s accounting and controls. It also reported disappointing fourth quarter earnings that led some analysts to ask whether the company’s stringent controls on costs might be backfiring.The company’s stock was down almost 27 percent as trading began on Friday.Kraft’s chief executive, Bernardo Hees, said the company’s earnings fell short because it did not deliver sufficient cost savings.“For that, we take full responsibility,” he said Thursday on a call with investors and analysts.The huge write-down appeared to come from a shift in how consumers eat, emphasizing fresh food over processed products. The write-down reduced the value on the balance sheet of United States and Canadian operations and the Kraft and Oscar Mayer trademarks, the company said.Kraft and Heinz, two stalwarts of grocery store aisles, merged in 2015 in a deal that combined the investments of 3G Capital, a Brazilian private investment group, and Warren E. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. Together, the two investment firms owned nearly half of Kraft Heinz at the end of last year. Mr. Buffett stepped down from the company’s board last year.But the company has struggled with both the changing tastes of shoppers and with cutting costs. On that latter issue, the S.E.C.’s scrutiny could add to investor concerns.Kraft Heinz said that the regulator looked at “agreements, side agreements, and changes or modifications to its agreements with its vendors.” With external accounting and legal advisers, Kraft carried out an investigation that led to it recording a $25 million increase in costs in the fourth quarter. The company said it should have recorded the $25 million in earlier periods.Kraft’s chief financial officer, David H. Knopf, said on the investor call that the misstatement “was not material to our current and prior year financial statements.”Kraft said it would make changes to reduce the chances of making similar accounting missteps in the future, adding that it was continuing to cooperate with the commission.3G Capital is well known for pursuing lower costs at the companies it owns. One analyst on Thursday pressed Mr. Hees on whether Kraft’s belt-tightening had gone too far and was now damaging some of its most prominent brands.“We still believe strongly that our model is working and has a lot of potential for the future,” Mr. Hees said.FRANKFURT — Deutsche Bank managers used to boast that theirs was one of the few global investment banks to survive the financial crisis without a government bailout.That was before the scandals, the multibillion-dollar fines and the plummeting stock price. Now, a decade after the global meltdown, it looks like Berlin may intervene after all.The market chatter is that the government will strong-arm Deutsche Bank into a merger with its Frankfurt crosstown rival Commerzbank, which also has major problems. The two banks are Germany’s largest, and the government’s likely aim is to ensure the country has at least one big-league lender.Neither the banks nor officials in Berlin are commenting on persistent reports in a wide variety of German publications, including the Handelsblatt newspaper and Manager magazine, but a government manifesto in February effectively endorsed the idea. Germany needs a bank that can “stand up to competitors from the United States and China,” the document said.Analysts and investors warn that the sum of two ailing Frankfurt banks is not necessarily one healthy bank. But a merger may be the least-bad option for Deutsche Bank, which lost money in the fourth quarter of 2018 and faces accusations that it facilitated money laundering.Would a merger of Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank make any sense? Here’s a look at some of the main issues.Why are German banks in such bad shape?The underlying problem is that the German banking market is overcrowded, and consumer and small-business lending is dominated by quasi-public savings banks. That makes it hard for commercial lenders like Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank to make money, even though they reside in one of the world’s most formidable economies.But the two banks are also suffering the consequences of years of management mistakes.Commerzbank lent heavily to the shipping industry just before it ran into a deep recession caused by a worldwide oversupply of freighters. The bank required a government bailout in 2009 after it acquired Dresdner Bank, which turned out to have billions of euros in toxic assets. The government still owns about 15 percent of Commerzbank shares.Deutsche Bank, in its zeal to compete with the likes of Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, got caught in many of the big scandals of the early 2000s: rigging interest rates, selling toxic mortgages, laundering money, violating sanctions. It paid billions of dollars in fines.The bank’s reputation continues to suffer. In November, German prosecutors and police officers raided Deutsche Bank’s headquarters in Frankfurt as part of an investigation into whether some bank employees helped criminals launder money in offshore tax havens.The bank’s own inquiry uncovered no wrongdoing by employees, Karl von Rohr, the bank’s chief administrative officer, said in February. Still, he acknowledged that the allegations drove away customers and hurt the bottom line. Accusations of money laundering “were not helpful in the fourth quarter of 2018,” Mr. von Rohr said at a news conference.Deutsche Bank reported a net loss of 409 million euros for the quarter, or $464 million. Commerzbank did better, reporting a profit of €113 million on revenue of €2.1 billion. Investors, however, remain skeptical. Shares of both banks are trading near 10-year lows.What’s the point of combining two weak banks?German and European political leaders fear domination by the big American investment banks, which emerged from the financial crisis more powerful than ever. In times of economic stress, the argument goes, Germany will need a big bank with an international presence to ensure that German corporations still have access to credit.But political leaders risk creating a monster that could ultimately prove costly for taxpayers, said Sascha Steffen, a professor at the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. In a crisis, the government would have little choice but to bail out the country’s biggest bank.“They would become even more ‘too big to fail,’” Mr. Steffen said. “This is not a good idea.”Mr. Steffen said the government would be better off encouraging German companies to reduce their dependency on bank loans by issuing bonds, a common practice in the United States.Why is the government getting involved?By orchestrating a merger, Mr. Steffen said, Olaf Scholz, the German finance minister, may hope to raise the fortunes of his Social Democratic party, whose poll numbers have gone in the same direction as Deutsche Bank shares. Mr. Scholz has been a frequent visitor to Frankfurt recently, fueling media speculation that he is trying to act as marriage broker.Government meddling in the economy went out of fashion in the 1990s. But it’s making a comeback as political parties try to regain electoral clout and beat back populist challengers by positioning themselves as defenders of jobs and creators of national champions. Even Angela Merkel’s conservative Christian Democrats are talking about “industrial policy,” a term that implies government involvement in company decisions.How hard would it be to combine the two banks?The history of German bank mergers is not encouraging. Commerzbank took years to absorb Dresdner Bank. Deutsche Bank continues to wrestle with its acquisition in 2010 of a majority in Postbank, which has a large branch network in Germany.“We see from Deutsche Bank and Postbank how long it takes to integrate information technology,” said Jörg Rocholl, president of ESMT Berlin, a business school. “This is a major burden.”Both banks have large, overlapping branch networks, which would have to be trimmed. That would not be easy. Job cuts are costly in Germany because of labor laws, and the union that represents bank workers has already signaled its opposition to a merger.There are a few areas where the banks complement each other. Commerzbank is strong in lending to midsize German exporters. Deutsche Bank is more international and could help those companies handle foreign financial transactions.But the large amount of duplication would inevitably lead to turf battles. “I don’t see an economic rationale for such a merger,” Mr. Rocholl said. Why not a merger with a foreign bank?It might make sense for Deutsche Bank to team up with a strong foreign bank, but there don’t seem to be any takers.Deutsche Bank is valued by the stock market at about €16 billion, half what it was worth at the end of 2017. That’s very cheap for a big bank. JPMorgan Chase generates more revenue than that in a single quarter. The lack of takeover bids suggests that potential buyers think fixing Deutsche Bank would be more trouble than it’s worth, Mr. Rocholl said. It’s also possible that foreign banks are discouraged from bidding because they know the government would put up obstacles.Can the banks make it on their own?There have been signs of progress. Commerzbank’s fourth-quarter profit was a 50 percent improvement over the same period a year earlier. The bank has largely disposed of its shipping portfolio and the bad assets it acquired from Dresdner Bank.Though Deutsche Bank reported a loss for the fourth quarter, it reported a net profit for the full year, its first since 2014. Under Christian Sewing, a risk expert who became chief executive in April 2018, Deutsche Bank exceeded self-imposed targets for cutting its costs, which are too high for the amount of revenue the bank generates.“They have shown the cost discipline they promised,” Mr. Rocholl said. “It would be too early to give up hope.”But it would probably take years for Deutsche Bank to regain its former stature.What would a new bank be called?No word on that. Deutsche Bank might signal a new, scandal-free beginning by agreeing to a name change, something like “DeutscheCommerz.”But the Deutsche Bank brand, though tarnished, still connotes more than a century of tradition and has cachet. Commerzbank is just as old and just as proud; both banks were founded in 1870. Figuring out what to name the new beast, if it comes into existence, could be one of the toughest points of negotiation.LONDON — Last year, Sotheby’s sold $6.4 billion worth of artworks worldwide, a 16 percent increase over 2017, the New York-based auction house said Thursday, announcing its full-year financial results. Earlier this month its archrival Christie’s announced equivalent 2018 sales of $7 billion.Sotheby’s said its 2018 performance had been bolstered by $1 billion in private sales, up 37 percent from the previous year. But profitability was down. The auction house achieved a net income of $108.6 million, or $2.09 per diluted share, compared with $118.8 million, or $2.20 per diluted share, in 2017.Sotheby’s incurred significant losses on some high-value lots guaranteed at auctions, such as a Modigliani nude, which sold below the amount promised to the seller for $157.2 million in May, and a $30 million abstract, “Pre-War Pageant,” by the American modernist Marsden Hartley that failed to sell in November. The following month, Adam Chinn, the company’s chief operating officer, stepped down and his role was eliminated.But Sotheby’s said it had achieved notable auction highs for contemporary artists such as Kerry James Marshall and Jenny Saville, and had raised $1 billion in auction sales in Asia, the highest total for the company. The auction house’s investment in new technology had resulted in $72.1 million of online-only sales, four times the total of the previous year.“Over all, you will see a company in great shape for the future,” said Tad Smith, president and chief executive. He added that the “expectation for our company in 2019 is favorable,” but acknowledged that “the range of outcomes has a bit more uncertainty than when we entered 2018,” because of factors like geopolitics.This year Sotheby’s will celebrate its 275th anniversary. At 12:20 p.m. Eastern on Thursday its stock, the oldest listed on the New York Stock Exchange, was trading at $44.07 per share, up 3.2 percent, and slightly above the price of $42.26 at which the company’s stock was valued on March 1, 2015, just before Mr. Smith was appointed chief executive.Good Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)AT&T beats the government, againA federal appeals court ruled against the Justice Department on its bid to block AT&T’s $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner. It’s the final blow to the government’s two-year effort to thwart one of the biggest media mergers in years.A three-judge panel ruled that a lower court had applied antitrust laws correctly. “The government’s objections that the District Court misunderstood and misapplied economic principles and clearly erred in rejecting the quantitative model are unpersuasive,” Judge Judith Rogers wrote on behalf of the panel.AT&T is free to reboot Time Warner. Now a division known as WarnerMedia, it will be turned into a streaming-video business — AT&T’s version of what has become the TV industry’s go-to strategy. Among its planned products: a service that combines HBO, Warner Bros. movies like “Wonder Woman” and shows like “Friends.”The Justice Department won’t appeal the decision. The court’s ruling was a blow to the department’s top antitrust official, Makan Delrahim, who had hoped the case would strike a blow against so-called vertical mergers, which combine companies with complementary businesses.Where should Mr. Delrahim look now? Joe Nocera of Bloomberg Opinion argues that there are far larger consolidation problems in other industries, including tech and airlines.Elon Musk won’t stop fighting the S.E.C.Many executives facing a contempt of court allegation from the Securities and Exchange Commission would stay quiet. Not Elon Musk.“Something is broken with S.E.C. oversight,” the Tesla C.E.O. tweeted yesterday. He was replying to a follower who complained about the contempt accusation moving Tesla’s stock.That will annoy S.E.C. officials, who worry that Mr. Musk isn’t taking their previous settlement with him seriously, according to the WSJ. Tesla lawyers conceded to the S.E.C. that they did not vet a tweet by Mr. Musk about production targets, though they helped write a subsequent “clarifying” tweet.The S.E.C. must try to punish Mr. Musk, some experts say. Officials “have to enforce this settlement,” Charles Elson of the University of Delaware told the FT. “If they let this go, then every C.E.O. will be saying they’re special.” But other lawyers think Mr. Musk’s actions underscore how toothless the S.E.C. is.What will Michael Cohen say about Trump?All eyes will be on Michael Cohen at 10 a.m. Eastern today as he testifies before the House Oversight and Reform Committee. Mr. Cohen, once President Trump’s personal lawyer, has prepared testimony in which he’s expected to call his onetime boss a “con man” and a “cheat,” Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman of the NYT report:• “Mr. Cohen is likely to lay out a picture of Mr. Trump that is fundamentally at odds with the take-charge, top-flight businessman persona he developed on the reality show ‘The Apprentice’ over the course of a decade.”• “Among the most explosive and potentially damning aspects of Mr. Cohen’s testimony before the oversight committee will be providing evidence of potential criminal conduct since Mr. Trump became president, according to people familiar with the plans.” Some of that is tied to hush payments made to the porn star Stormy Daniels.• Mr. Cohen is also expected to discuss the role of Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O., in those payments, as well as how long Mr. Trump continued to discuss plans for a Trump Tower in Moscow in 2016.• “He will also describe the president inflating or devaluing his net worth, referring to a financial statement of Mr. Trump’s that Mr. Cohen has in his possession, the people said.”• The scheduled testimony has already sparked some controversy, with Rep. Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican and ally of the president, threatening to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs. Mr. Gaetz subsequently apologized.Brexit might be pushed back a whilePrime Minister Theresa May has agreed that Parliament should have the option of seeking to delay Britain’s exit from the E.U., Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.Her new plan offers lawmakers a vote on her Brexit deal by March 12. If that is rejected, a second vote by March 13 will let Parliament choose to leave the E.U. without a deal. If that is rejected, a vote will be held by March 14 that would allow lawmakers to request a “short, limited extension” to the process.“Mrs. May’s reversal was striking because she had insisted dozens of times in Parliament that Britain would definitely leave the European Union on schedule on March 29,” Mr. Castle writes. But it is “the latest in a long line of retreats as she has struggled to cajole the fractious Tories into supporting a revised version of the deal.”“While her move lessens significantly the risk of a potentially disastrous ‘no deal’ Brexit by the March 29 deadline, an extension of the negotiating period will merely delay that danger by a couple of months, not end it,” Mr. Castle adds.All 27 other E.U. governments would have to approve a postponement, and “unless Britain plans to hold a general election or another referendum, the delay is not likely to extend beyond early July, when a newly elected European Parliament is scheduled to meet.”More: The news reduces the significance of a series of parliamentary votes on a Brexit motion scheduled for later today. The pound is rebounding. And the E.U. has agreed on tough rules for London-based financial services companies operating on the Continent after Brexit.The F.T.C. assembles a Big Tech task forceThe Federal Trade Commission announced yesterday that it had a new team of officials to police tech giants.The task force will have 17 staff lawyers dedicated to “monitoring competition in U.S. technology markets, investigating any potential anticompetitive conduct in those markets, and taking enforcement actions when warranted.”Tech “grows more important every day” in both the economy and daily life, the F.T.C.’s chairman, Joe Simons, said. “It makes sense for us to closely examine technology markets to ensure consumers benefit from free and fair competition.”It’s not the F.T.C.’s first move against the tech giants. It was reported earlier this month to be considering a record multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations. And critics have increasingly called for breaking up big tech companies — especially the likes of Facebook, which controls Instagram and WhatsApp.The F.T.C. competition director sees “distinct challenges” for antitrust enforcement in tech. That director, Bruce Hoffman, is also quoted at the Verge as suggesting that some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.A Trump tax rise will hit 11 million peoplePresident Trump’s decision to cap a popular tax break will affect 11 million filers this year, Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports:• A $10,000 cap on deductions of state and local taxes from federal income taxes, which was intended to reduce the cost of Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, will mean filers cannot deduct $323 billion on their 2018 federal returns.• “Many filers will benefit from different parts of the tax cuts, such as the elimination of the alternative minimum tax and the reduction in marginal tax rates. Additionally, the law doubled the standard deduction that taxpayers may take, along with a host of other tax changes,” Mr. Tankersley writes.• “The so-called SALT cap is, however, most likely to affect the richest Americans: More than half of the tax increases from the change will fall on the top 1 percent of income earners, according to estimates by the independent Tax Policy Center in Washington.”Is the global economy headed up or down?Some of the biggest figures in finance and economics have conflicting takes.The Fed’s chairman, Jay Powell, told the Senate Banking Committee yesterday that current economic conditions were “healthy” and their outlook “favorable.” But he added that there were “crosscurrents and conflicting signals,” which meant that financial conditions were “now less supportive of growth than they were earlier last year.”Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase is also wary. “We are prepared for a recession,” he said in the bank’s annual presentation to investors yesterday. “We’re not predicting a recession. We’re simply pointing out that we are very conscious about the risks we bear.”But Goldman Sachs is more sanguine. In a note published yesterday, economists at the firm argued that “some green shoots are emerging that suggest that sequential growth will pick up from here.” They believe the U.S. economy stands a good chance of picking up, and that China’s might, too.Revolving doorDeutsche Bank hired Robert Innocentin from Bank of America as a managing director for its financial sponsors team, part of its investment-banking business.Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired 100 employees to work in its nascent corporate cash management business, which aims to challenge Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.The speed readDeals• EBay is reportedly near a deal that would give the activist hedge funds Elliott Management and Starboard Value seats on its board and prepare the online marketplace for a breakup. (WSJ)• Sunrise Communications is in “advanced discussions” to buy Liberty Global’s Swiss unit for $6.3 billion. (Reuters)• The British retailer Marks & Spencer will pay up to £750 million, or $996 million, to form a joint venture with the online grocery specialist Ocado. (FT)• Volkswagen plans to invest $1.7 billion into Ford Motor’s self-driving car division. (WSJ)• ThirdLove, a lingerie start-up challenging Victoria’s Secret, raised $55 million from L Catterton, Katie Couric and the YouTube C.E.O. Susan Wojcicki. (Forbes)Politics and policy• President Trump may drop a demand that North Korea eliminate nuclear weapons in pursuit of a peace deal. (NYT)• The Senate Finance Committee grilled the C.E.O.s of seven pharmaceutical companies about lowering drug prices. (WSJ)• The Congressional Budget Office said that the U.S. government will run out of cash by early fall if its debt limit isn’t increased. (Bloomberg)• The House passed a bill designating over one million acres of wilderness for environmental protection. It still needs Mr. Trump’s approval. (NYT)• Gary Cohn is writing a memoir that covers his time in the White House. (CNBC)Trade• President Trump might be undermining his trade negotiators, weakening a potential deal with China. (NYT)Tech• Facebook dropped the ball on privacy and fake news. Could it do better on hate speech? (Vanity Fair)• Also: Its new subscription platform for content creators, which would compete with Patreon, appears to offer lousy terms. (Verge)• At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, American officials called Huawei “duplicitous and deceitful.” Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates announced that it plans to use Huawei hardware to build high-speed wireless networks. (WSJ, NYT)• I.P.O investors will find Lyft and Uber hard to value, because they bear so little relation to other companies. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• Fiat Chrysler plans to invest $4.5 billion around Detroit in the next three years, updating plants and creating jobs. (NYT)• A three-hour malfunction affected after-hours trading of U.S. Treasuries, stock futures and commodities last night. (Bloomberg)• Jay Powell, the Fed’s chairman, says that the idea that America might not honor its debt obligations “can’t even be considered.” (CNBC)• Walmart is doubling down on efforts to profit from advertising and selling customer data. (WSJ)• U.S. automakers bet heavily on China’s booming car market and cheap labor. It hasn’t paid off. (NYT)• If tough bosses get results, they’re of a sort researchers struggle to find. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Euan Robertson started his job with New York City’s economic development team at an ominous moment. It was Monday, Sept. 15, 2008, the day Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy and ignited the financial crisis.Mr. Robertson made his way through City Hall’s sprawling open office to a conference table, where he huddled with top advisers to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.“No one knew what was going to happen or how bad it would be,” Mr. Robertson recalled. “But everyone agreed we’d better come up with a plan.”The plan that emerged called for developing tech start-ups and tech workers in New York. The goal, Mr. Robertson said, was to “build a talent engine” that would help make the city a magnet for coders and companies.A decade later, there is ample evidence that the city is well on its way to achieving that goal. Amazon’s sudden decision last week to abandon its plan to build a big campus in Queens, in the face of protests from some local politicians and community activists, is a setback — but not one that reverses tech’s climb in the city.Amazon already employs 5,000 workers in New York, and the city’s talent pool was the main reason, the company said, that it selected New York in November. In December, Google announced a major expansion that could double its New York work force to 14,000 over the next decade, without the rich government incentives that proved a lightning rod for the Amazon deal.Today, the city is home to thousands of fledgling companies, and the New York region regularly ranks second to the Bay Area in attracting venture capital, the lifeblood of the start-up economy. The city’s tech sector has become a wellspring of jobs paying more than $150,000 on average, a major part of the local economy.The story of tech’s ascent in New York stretches back nearly two decades. It was a bumpy path, with progress both by design and serendipity. DoubleClick, a survivor of the dot-com crash and a digital advertising pioneer, and Google, which made an early bet on the city, played key roles. And the Bloomberg administration also made smart policy moves.But tech in New York took hold mainly because entrepreneurs, technologists and corporations chose the city as the place to work and live, just as the city’s industries were undergoing digital transformations, according to interviews with more than two dozen people who contributed to the city’s evolution into a tech center.“The truth is, we caught a wave,” said Seth Pinsky, the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation from 2008 to 2013.Many of the city’s tech jobs are not in technology companies. Instead, they are tied to industries where the city has long been positioned as a world leader — like finance, advertising and media. Those businesses face threats from the rise of the digital age, and have adapted to compete, helping to revitalize the city’s economy in the process. There are twice as many technology jobs in non-tech industries in New York as there are in technology companies, according to Emsi, a labor market research firm.New York’s confidential proposal to Amazon, code-named Project Clancy, which is filled with detailed data on the city work force and labor market, points to the change. Amazon asked, for example, which companies had the most job openings in machine learning, a fundamental artificial intelligence skill. The top four, according to the proposal, were JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and KPMG. Tied for fifth place were Amazon and Google.[Read more: For the labor movement, tech giants present a quandary.]Skilled tech workers now flock to New York from everywhere. But the homegrown talent engine that city officials sought to jump-start a decade ago is also revving up. The new Cornell Tech graduate school campus on Roosevelt Island, a product of the city’s development plan, has 300 students, with expansion plans for a student population of 2,000 over the next two decades. And new courses, buildings and research institutes are underway at Columbia, New York University and the City University of New York.And they are being lured by urban amenities — museums, theater, opera, dance, jazz clubs, art galleries, bars and restaurants — that offer a clear alternative to life in suburban Silicon Valley.“The main resource in technology is smart people,” said Kevin Ryan, a longtime tech entrepreneur. “The New York tech sector is succeeding largely because New York is succeeding.”Tech’s Long New York PastAnyone designing hardware, writing code, or using a computer or a smartphone today owes a debt to the innovations developed in metropolitan New York decades ago. The first widely adopted programming language, Fortran, was created in 1957 by young coders working for IBM in an office on East 56th Street. Their wintertime breaks were snowball fights in Central Park. Researchers at Bell Labs, located first in Manhattan and then suburban New Jersey, invented the transistor, the Unix operating system, and the C and C++ programming languages — building blocks of modern computing.Technology innovation eventually migrated outside New York. Minicomputer makers sprang up in the Boston suburbs. But the larger move was westward, beginning in the late 1960s, when first the semiconductor business and later the personal computer industry took root in sunny Northern California.The 1990s internet boom opened the door to New York entrepreneurs, especially in the field of new media, with ventures like Feed and Suck, popular web magazines. Start-ups clustered in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, an area known as Silicon Alley.When theGlobe.com, an early social media website, went public in late 1998, its shares soared more than 600 percent, a record at the time. TheGlobe.com, like so many start-ups in Silicon Alley and Silicon Valley, collapsed when the dot-com bubble burst a couple of years later.Amid the dot-com meltdown, though, there was a contrarian bet on the city, unnoticed at the time, by a fledgling start-up: Google.The Rise of GoogleIn the late summer of 2000, Timothy Armstrong, at 29, qualified as an internet veteran. Mr. Armstrong helped create or became a senior manager at a string of ventures, and had a solid track record in internet sales and marketing when he met with Omid Kordestani, head of sales at Google.The company was looking to expand, and Mr. Kordestani arranged a meeting between Mr. Armstrong and its founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, in Silicon Valley.The thinking at Google, Mr. Armstrong recalled, was little more than that the company wanted a big advertising business, and New York was where the ad money was. He signed a one-page contract with no guarantees.“The idea was, if it doesn’t work out, no harm, no foul,” Mr. Armstrong said.He became Google’s first employee in New York, working from his apartment on West 86th Street. The company was not yet two years old, the internet boom had crested, and ad agencies and consumer product companies were skeptical about the start-up’s offering — text ads linked to search results.Mr. Armstrong wanted to buy a fax machine to handle ad orders and billing. Mr. Page and Mr. Brin told him they wanted to see the orders before approving the purchase.“That’s how unsure people were about internet advertising,” Mr. Armstrong recalled.But the orders gradually picked up, becoming the cornerstone of the company’s booming business. An expansion of Google’s work force in New York followed.In 2003, Craig Nevill-Manning, a Google computer scientist, wanted to set up an engineering and research outpost in New York. The company’s leaders didn’t have high hopes, assuming all the best software engineers were in Silicon Valley. But they told him he could go ahead if he could find “Google-worthy” talent in New York — and he did, hiring 25 people in the first year.Corinna Cortes, a researcher at Bell Labs, was one of the early recruits. She joined Google to begin building a research arm in New York. Ms. Cortes lived in the West Village, had two young children and welcomed the opportunity to work on leading-edge computer science at Google and keep her city life. She enjoys theater and opera in Lincoln Center, restaurants in Greenwich Village and Soho and running trails along the Hudson River and in Central Park. She has completed the New York City Marathon 14 times and bikes to work.“There was no chance I would go to Mountain View,” said Ms. Cortes, who now leads about 200 scientists for Google Research in New York. “I wasn’t going to live in the suburbs.”By 2006, Google, at that point a darling of Silicon Valley, was settling into the city in a big way, moving into a blocklong Art Deco building in Chelsea. It needed the space, as Google would steadily enlarge its New York work force, to 7,000 today, more than half of them technical staff. In December, the company announced it would spend $1 billion on more office space in downtown Manhattan.Google’s relationship with the capital of the nation’s advertising business was cemented in 2007, when Google announced it would buy DoubleClick for $3.1 billion.DoubleClick, an internet ad-serving, tracking and analysis company that started in New York in 1996, had good technology, but also close ties to brand advertisers, ad agencies and online publishers. At its peak in 2000, the company reached a stock market value of $12 billion, holding on after the dot-com crash.In 2005, DoubleClick was taken over by a private equity firm for $1.1 billion, and two years later, with its fortunes improving, Google paid nearly three times as much.“It was a true diamond in the ashes of the dot-com flameout,” said Mr. Armstrong, who left Google as a senior vice president in 2009 to become chief executive of AOL.“When Google bought DoubleClick, it really took off,” said Randall Rothenberg, chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade association. “That was an inflection point for the digital advertising business in New York.”‘Game Changers’In early 2009, with the city economy reeling, a small team in the Bloomberg administration began an extensive analysis, code-named Game Changers. The team interviewed hundreds of executives, venture capitalists, urban experts and educators. It studied the technology-driven economic growth in Silicon Valley and in Israel’s start-up cluster in Haifa.It concluded that New York needed more computer engineering expertise. The city was a world leader in finance, media, advertising, law and consulting. Why shouldn’t the technology for those industries be built here? The Bloomberg administration called its technology-promotion policy “applied sciences.”“That was our mantra, what we thought of as the yeast for changing the economy,” said Robert Steel, the former deputy mayor for economic development. “And applied sciences would be the key to making the new digital world here instead of someplace else.”The city pushed applied sciences experiments, including start-up incubators, networking events and training and internship programs, nearly all private-public partnerships. But the biggest single step in the city’s applied sciences campaign was the creation of a new graduate school focused on technology and entrepreneurial innovation.Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Steel ran a high-profile competition that included Columbia, New York University and Carnegie Mellon University. In the end, though, a combined bid by Cornell and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology won out.The Cornell Tech proposal fully embraced the Bloomberg administration’s priority of blending science and industry. Graduate students’ projects at local companies are a mainstay of the curriculum.“In New York, people are driven by real-world problems that can be solved with technology,” said Daniel Huttenlocher, the dean of Cornell Tech, who has also worked in Silicon Valley and is an Amazon board member. “In Silicon Valley, the heritage is much more to build cool technology and then figure out how it can make money.”The Flywheel Starts to SpinIn healthy tech hubs, start-ups spawn other start-ups. That has been the pattern in Silicon Valley since the early days of chip making — young entrepreneurial refugees from Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory would go on to found Fairchild Semiconductor and later Intel.But in New York, the virtuous cycle of start-up reproduction has accelerated only in recent years. It took time, entrepreneurs and investors say, for the tech community in New York to build the success stories, human networks and self-confidence that inspire serial risk taking.DoubleClick, once again, was a trailblazer as it became a training ground for New York entrepreneurs. The most prominent is Kevin Ryan, a former chief executive of DoubleClick. He became a founder of six companies, including two e-commerce companies, the Gilt Groupe and Zola; an online business news site, Business Insider; and a database company, MongoDB.Mr. Ryan, the son of a manager at Caterpillar, was raised in the Midwest and in Europe, when his father was posted abroad. He majored in economics at Yale, got his M.B.A. at Insead in France, worked on Wall Street and helped develop the Dilbert website in 1995, as a manager at E. W. Scripps, a media company.The next year, Mr. Ryan jumped into the emerging internet industry, joining DoubleClick as one of the company’s first dozen or so employees, initially as chief financial officer and later rising to chief executive. He left DoubleClick in 2005, two years before Google bought it.“I came to New York because it was an international city,” Mr. Ryan said. “I stayed because I thought it was going to be a tech city as well.”The latter took a while. Tech investors often suggested he would be better off starting businesses in Silicon Valley, especially when he and two other DoubleClick alumni, Dwight Merriman and Eliot Horowitz, founded MongoDB in 2008. MongoDB, a database maker, grew slowly at first, but it has proved to be a commercial and financial success. Its stock is trading around $100 a share, up from its initial price of $24 when it went public in October 2017. It is now worth more than $5 billion.Embracing failure as a learning laboratory is another feature of dynamic start-up economies. Mr. Ryan saw that up close with the Gilt Groupe.Gilt, an e-commerce site that offered luxury goods in online flash sales, raised a lot of money, grew quickly and then fell. In 2016, Gilt was sold to Hudson’s Bay, parent company of Saks Fifth Avenue, for $250 million, less than the venture funding Gilt raised.“We never figured out how to make a profitable business out of flash sales — no one has,” said Mr. Ryan, a founder of Gilt. Last year, Gilt was sold to Rue La La, an e-commerce site, for a fraction of the price Hudson’s Bay paid.But in 2013, a group of Gilt alumni, including Mr. Ryan, took what they had learned and started Zola, a wedding-planning site. Its online gift registry and other services have been used by more than half a million couples, and the start-up raised $100 million last May.Zola’s payroll has tripled in the last two years, to 155 people, and two-thirds of them are women. There are teams in operations, finance, marketing, merchandising and logistics at its offices in Lower Manhattan. Yet the largest single group, about a quarter of the total, is the engineering staff.For Zola, New York offers access to the talent and expertise in the city’s large fashion, design and retail industries. Its co-founder and chief executive, Shan-Lyn Ma, a Stanford M.B.A. and former product manager at Yahoo, marvels at how much the tech scene has changed since she moved to the city a decade ago.“The biggest thing is the sheer number of people and the amount of experience people have in tech now,” Ms. Ma said. “Now, you just step out onto the street and you hear tech product discussions all the time.”Drawn to the CityWhen Maria Samuel graduated from Georgia Institute of Technology with a degree in industrial and systems engineering, she was recruited by Apple and Google. She had been coding since the ninth grade and had worked in seven programming languages. As an intern at NASA in Houston, she worked with a team planning Mars missions.But Ms. Samuel accepted an offer from Goldman Sachs, joining the investment bank in 2015.A product manager, she works with a team to develop software for market analysis, client communication and trading. She views financial markets as a window into industries, markets and behavior. “Every day, I’m constantly learning,” she said.After the financial crisis, graduates with computing skills shunned Wall Street for Silicon Valley. But that is no longer the case, as the finance industry is attracting young talent and seasoned technologists. Last year, for example, JPMorgan Chase lured Apoorv Saxena, a senior A.I. product manager at Google, to lead the bank’s A.I. product development, and Manuela Veloso from Carnegie Mellon University to head an A.I. research team.For Ms. Samuel, 25, the job was appealing, but so was the locale. New York is where many of her friends have come to start their careers. And Ms. Samuel, who sang in a choir and an a cappella group in college, describes herself as a “big Broadway geek.”For most recent graduates, the financial meltdown a decade ago is a distant memory. Today, it is not Wall Street but the big tech companies, like Facebook and Google, that are under fire. Their business models, based on gathering consumer data and targeted ads, have put them at the center of global concerns about privacy and false news.That is a recruiting opportunity these days for R. Martin Chavez, a senior partner at Goldman Sachs, who is also a computer scientist with a Ph.D. from Stanford. At recruiting events, his pitch is to say Google and Facebook have done “amazing things” and quickly add: “If you want to work on advertising, that’s where you should go. If you want to use math and software to solve hard problems for governments, corporations and other institutions, you should come to Goldman Sachs.”As the New York tech sector grows, policymakers and executives hope to broaden its reach beyond Manhattan and the affluent portions of Brooklyn. Fred Wilson, an investor and venture capitalist in New York for more than three decades, saw a warning sign in the protests in Long Island City, Queens, over the news that Amazon had planned to move in.“That’s partly from a sense that it’s not going to help them, and only drive up their costs,” Mr. Wilson said of the community. “To really be a success in New York, the benefits of the tech sector have to extend to every borough and every neighborhood.”Deborah Estrin was the first non-Cornell computer scientist to join the Cornell Tech faculty in 2012. Ms. Estrin was at the University of California, Los Angeles, and not looking to move. But she read the Cornell Tech proposal, and its emphasis on applied technology resonated.Ms. Estrin says that New York’s advantage is its concentration of people in other industries working on problems that require technology to solve.“If you’re doing pure tech — a superfast chip or advanced systems software — Silicon Valley is still the place to be,” she said. “But when it comes to everything else, New York really has a chance to be the place to be.”Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)U.S. frustrations grow over China trade talksChina’s vice premier, Liu He, is scheduled to hold face-to-face trade talks in Washington today, before attending a meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office. There is still plenty to be discussed.“The tone of the negotiations between the two nations has grown more stern,” according to Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT, citing unnamed sources. “American officials have come to realize that China has been repackaging promised reforms and trying to sell them as concessions to Mr. Trump,” which has “caused deep frustration among the administration’s China hard-liners.”Here are some of the key issues on the table:• Trade deficits. The two nations have “reached consensus on how to alleviate the trade imbalances,” Reuters reports. “Washington and Beijing are looking at a 10-item list for that, including additional Chinese purchases of agricultural produce, energy and goods such as semiconductors.”• Currency stability. U.S. negotiators are said to be demanding that China stop devaluing its currency as part of a deal. But CNBC reports that such a measure is “likely to encounter little resistance from the Chinese” because the nation’s central bank also wants the same thing, according to economists who spoke with the network.• Settling chip spats. “U.S. and Chinese negotiators are trying to resolve a long-running dispute between semiconductor rivals Micron Technology and Fujian Jinhua as part of a larger trade agreement,” the FT reports.• Enforcement mechanisms. “Negotiators have struggled this week to overcome differences on specific language to address tough U.S. demands for structural changes in China’s economy,” Reuters reports, including “an enforcement mechanism to ensure that China complies with any agreements.”“The final terms of the deal are likely to be worked out in a meeting or phone call between Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump himself,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. That means that Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, must now “narrow the suite of disagreements down to just a handful of remaining issues for the president to negotiate.” It’s unclear how long that might take.Kraft Heinz’s $15.4 billion problemThe processed food giant announced yesterday that it had taken a $15.4 billion write-down, earned less than expected and been subpoenaed by the S.E.C. Unsurprisingly, that spooked investors and raised big questions about its strategy.Blame changing tastes for the write-down. Peter Eavis of the NYT writes that the hit affects the company’s U.S. and Canadian operations and the Kraft and Oscar Mayer brands, and “appears to come from a shift in how consumers eat, emphasizing fresh food over processed products.” The earnings miss, Kraft Heinz said, was because it didn’t deliver enough cost cuts.And accounting questions brought the S.E.C. inquiry. Kraft Heinz said that an accounting cost related to vendor contracts should have been recorded in previous quarters, but that the misstatement “was not material.”Investors, including Warren Buffett, also took a big hit. Shares fell by nearly 21 percent in after-hours trading. Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which is one of Kraft Heinz’s largest shareholders, saw the value of its holdings drop nearly $3 billion yesterday, to $12.9 billion.Kraft Heinz may need a reboot. The company’s fundamental business model — promoted by 3G Capital, the investment firm that pushed Kraft and Heinz to merge — is buying companies and then cutting costs. But the strategy could sputter, writes Tara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Opinion: “Who would want to sell to Kraft Heinz now?”Mixed messages over a tweaked Brexit dealAs the British Parliament heads toward a vote next week that could strip control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May, there is confusion about the current state of play.There was “no breakthrough” in talks between two of Mrs. May’s key ministers and E.U. officials during meetings in Brussels yesterday, according to Bloomberg. Her government has been trying to convince Europe to renegotiate the existing withdrawal plan, but E.U. officials have repeatedly declined to do so. Mrs. May is expected to hold more talks with E.U. officials at a meeting in Egypt this weekend.And there are unclear signals about progress. Philip Hammond, Britain’s finance minister, said last night that a revised deal could be put to a vote in Parliament as soon as next week. Unnamed government officials have since tried to play down those claims. One unidentified source told Reuters, “It doesn’t feel like we will have a deal by next week.”But the E.U. reportedly expects a delay. “Discussions between the two sides suggest May will ask for an extension to the two-year negotiating period if the British Parliament backs the Brexit deal but it isn’t signed off until an E.U. summit on March 21-22,” Bloomberg reports. “That is emerging as the EU’s current plan.”More Brexit news: Euro-skeptic Conservative Party lawmakers are threatening to back out of crucial votes, which could paralyze Mrs. May’s Brexit efforts. A no-deal Brexit could cause chaos for the London-Paris train line run by Eurostar. Mrs. May’s government is said to have delayed a report on the impact of tariffs to avoid a backlash. And deal or no, Britain’s currency is in trouble.Might Trump go easy on Huawei?The Trump administration has been branding Huawei as a threat to national security for months now. But yesterday, President Trump hinted that he may be softening his stance on the company.Mr. Trump wants 5G in the U.S. “as soon as possible” according to a tweet he posted yesterday. But, intriguingly, he wants the U.S. to win the race for the next-generation wireless technology “not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies.” (He also wants 6G technology, which doesn’t yet exist.)That could be seen as an olive branch to China. “Some officials in Mr. Trump’s administration have been pushing for him to sign an order that could result in U.S. companies being barred from buying Huawei technology at all,” the FT reports. “Experts believe the president’s tweet signaled he was backing away from such an action, possibly as a way to soften up Beijing for a wider trade deal.”It comes as Huawei is winning over U.S. allies. Despite pressure from Washington to exclude the company’s equipment from national wireless networks, countries like India and Canada are continuing to rely on Huawei products because a) they work, and b) they’re cheap. And Britain and Germany both seem to be open to using the company’s hardware.By day, MSNBC anchor; by night, Under Armour’s adviserUnder Armour’s board grilled the athletic equipment company’s founder and chief, Kevin Plank, last year, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources. Its focus: his relationship with Stephanie Ruhle, an MSNBC anchor — and his apparent business guru.• “Ms. Ruhle has traveled with Mr. Plank and Under Armour staff on his private jet, they said, and given the C.E.O. her input on a range of business matters.”• Among the topics: How to handle bad press over a sneaker model and recommending that Mr. Plank get involved with the White House, at a time when other C.E.O.s were keeping their distance.• “Ms. Ruhle’s involvement at the Baltimore company was unusual and problematic, these people said, and left employees unsure how to handle her feedback because many people believed she was romantically involved with Mr. Plank.”• “The board asked Mr. Plank about the nature of the relationship and whether company assets were used, these people said.”• A spokeswoman for Under Armour said the two are friends, and that Mr. Plank keeps clear lines between the company and his private life.• “The company has grappled with complaints about its culture, including strip-club visits and inappropriate behavior by executives. Mr. Plank has spoken openly about the company’s shortcomings and vowed to make improvements.”Stock and bonds are up. What does that mean?Simultaneous rebounds in the stock and bond markets are sending conflicting signals about the direction of the U.S. economy, writes Stephen Grocer of the NYT:• “The S&P 500 is off to its best start to a year in nearly a decade, up 11 percent so far.”• “Bond investors have taken a more pessimistic view on the economy’s fate. Prices on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have risen this year, pushing down its yield to 2.69 percent, from 3.23 percent just three months ago.”• “Stock and bond prices are not supposed to rise and fall in tandem. Historically, when investors fret about the future, they pull money out of stock markets and buy relatively safe United States Treasury securities.”• “Investors are in a familiar situation: An economy that isn’t strong enough to compel the Fed to raise rates but is strong enough for corporate America to keep expanding its bottom line.”• “But how long this so-called Goldilocks scenario can persist will depend on the Fed’s plan for rates and the United States-China trade negotiations.”Revolving doorMark Frissora will stay on as C.E.O. of Caesars Entertainment longer than expected, as the casino company faces pressure from Carl Icahn.Spencer Rascoff stepped down as C.E.O. of Zillow, the real-estate company. He’ll be replaced by his co-founder, Rich Barton.Reggie Fils-Aime will retire as president of Nintendo of America. He’ll be succeeded by Doug Bowser.Lisa Borders resigned as the C.E.O. of Time’s Up, the anti-sexual-harassment advocacy group, after her son was accused of sexual assault.The speed readDeals• Pinterest filed confidentially to go public, becoming the latest tech unicorn to seek an I.P.O. (NYT)• Barrick Gold has reportedly considered a takeover bid for fellow miner Newmont, whose market value yesterday was about $19 billion. (Bloomberg)• The food delivery company DoorDash raised $400 million at a $7.1 billion valuation. (NYT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $1 billion investment in Flexport, a freight company. (CNBC)Politics and policy• The Green New Deal is technologically possible. But it’s politically far-fetched. (NYT)• Testimony that Dr. Richard Sackler, the former president of the maker of OxyContin, gave in a 2015 deposition appears to contradict the findings of a Justice Department report. (NYT)• A federal judge ruled that prosecutors, including the current labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, violated the law by not disclosing that they had struck a nonprosecution agreement with Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire accused of molesting young girls, in 2008. (WaPo)• The N.J. State Senate passed a bill to bar President Trump from the state’s 2020 ballot unless he releases his tax returns. David Leonhardt of the NYT argues that House Democrats should renew their demand for the documents as well. (Hill, NYT Opinion)Trade• One party totally happy with the U.S.-China trade war: Russian soybean farmers. (WSJ)• E.U. officials are set to debate when to start trade talks with President Trump. (Reuters)• Chinese ports have banned Australian coal imports indefinitely. (Nikkei Asian Review)Tech• Apple is teaming up with Goldman Sachs to create a credit card that provides extra account features on iPhones. The tech company is also working with Ant Financial to offer interest-free iPhone financing in China. (WSJ, Reuters)• Google will no longer force employees to settle disputes with the company in private arbitration. (NYT)• Tesla’s Model 3 lost its “recommended” status from Consumer Reports. But the cars are finally being delivered in China. (WSJ)• Verizon plans to roll out 5G wireless connections in 30 unnamed U.S. cities this year. (Verge)• How China tracks people using DNA. (NYT)Best of the rest• Ford is investigating how it tested vehicle emissions and fuel efficiency after employees reported possible flaws in its analyses. (NYT)• The $15 minimum wage doesn’t just improve lives. It can save them, too. (NYT)• Could money laundering be widespread across Scandinavia’s banks? (Bloomberg)• How China could both calm its trade war and make itself richer. (Economist)• Delta’s C.E.O., Ed Bastian, says “leadership is not a popularity contest.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.LONDON — Two days after saying he intended to step down, Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, returned to his post after President Hassan Rouhani rejected the resignation.There were smiles all around on Wednesday, as Mr. Zarif appeared alongside Mr. Rouhani during a welcoming ceremony for a visiting dignitary broadcast live on state television.Despite his return, the major reason for Mr. Zarif’s resignation — his diminished status in the government — is not likely to change significantly, analysts said.Mr. Zarif, urbane, worldly and fluent in English, has for years been Iran’s public face to much of the world, and never more so than when he brokered a landmark deal with world powers curtailing Iran’s nuclear program.But President Trump’s withdrawal from the nuclear deal last year sent Mr. Zarif’s stock sliding within Iran’s leadership, relegating him and his team of professional diplomats back to the sidelines.So it was not all that surprising this week when Mr. Zarif, left out of a meeting with President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, reacted to the snub by hard-liners in Iran’s government by resigning. It was a bid to shame his rivals within the leadership and an attempt to reassert his influence, analysts said.“The Foreign Ministry has been sidelined to such an extent when it comes to Syria and Iraq and all the regional security issues that it’s really embarrassing, and I think probably very frustrating for Zarif and for Iran’s professional diplomats,” said Roham Alvandi, a historian of Iran at the London School of Economics.But it is doubtful that Mr. Zarif will return to his job with any more influence than when he left it, analysts said.“A lot of this is the theatrics of Persian politics,” said Ali Ansari, a professor of Iranian history at the University of St. Andrews. “It’s part of a form: He’s gotten upset, so they have to come back and smooth the ego.”Mr. Ansari said, “What it basically shows, in some ways, is that I think Iranian officials always have this sense that they’re more influential than they are.”Analysts said the tensions had long been building between Mr. Zarif, a representative of the so-called moderate wing of Iranian politics, and his hard-line rivals in other state organs, notably the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.The country’s leadership is under enormous pressure since Mr. Trump withdrew from the 2015 nuclear treaty and the United States reinstated a broad set of sanctions, hurting Iran’s economy.The hard-liners had warned at the time that the treaty was signed that the United States was not to be trusted. The validation of that prophecy has greatly strengthened their standing and hurt the moderates.Despite the United States’ withdrawal from the nuclear deal, Mr. Rouhani’s administration has continued to adhere to the treaty, hoping for a victory by a Democrat in the 2020 United States presidential election that could undo the confrontational policies of Mr. Trump.Mr. Zarif also backs Iran’s state organs joining the Financial Action Task Force, an intergovernmental organization that combats money laundering and the funding of terrorism by imposing a measure of transparency. Hard-liners in a government rife with corruption want nothing to do with the task force.It was against that backdrop that Mr. Zarif was publicly snubbed on Monday when Mr. al-Assad paid a surprise visit to Tehran to meet with Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.Mr. Zarif was noticeably absent from the Iranian entourage. Instead, he met with a group of American antiwar activists.Analysts described the episode as the straw that broke the camel’s back after years of slights against Mr. Zarif.Hours later he announced his resignation in a post on Instagram, went home and turned off his phone.But by Wednesday, he was back at work and being pictured beside Mr. Rouhani. (Under Iranian laws, ministers cannot resign without the permission of the president.)The influential commander of the elite Quds force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, Brig. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, who plays a leading role in Iran’s Syrian policy, also issued a statement backing Mr. Zarif.He blamed a “lack of coordination at the presidential office for Mr. Zarif’s absence at the meeting with the Syrian president,” and nothing “deliberate.”While the resignation struck some experts as unusually confrontational, they were dubious that Mr. Zarif winning his job back signaled any sort of a victory over hard-line factions that have long controlled foreign policy on matters like Syria.And they said Mr. Zarif had further undercut the impact of his resignation by choosing to leave over a matter of political optics, rather than a substantive policy disagreement with other parts of the leadership.“The function of the Foreign Ministry is basically to implement the foreign policy that is decided elsewhere,” Mr. Ansari said. “It’s been like that for ages.”In the Trump era, the Foreign Ministry’s remit has grown even smaller.“Basically, their role has essentially been cut down to managing Iran’s relations with Europe,” Mr. Alvandi said. And even in Europe, Iran’s standing has been hurt by accusations that its intelligence service plotted a bombing in France.Still, if nothing else, the episode appeared to show that at a moment of enormous pressure on Iran’s leadership, there was no good replacement for Mr. Zarif, who has built up decades of contacts and credibility, especially in the West.“It would be very hard for anyone to play the role he plays so effectively,” Mr. Alvandi said.The Bull Market’s Greatest Feat? Sowing DoubtThis stock market rally hasn’t been as intense as many others that preceded it.By Stephen GrocerMarch 9, 2019Ten years ago, when the global financial crisis seemed at its worst, the stock market hit rock bottom.The bull run that has followed now ranks among the greatest rallies of the past century: The S&P 500 has more than quadrupled, adding $17.5 trillion in value, and, of the 11 bull markets since the end of World War II, only the run that ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2000 tops the current one in duration and returns.But despite the superlatives, this rally’s primary characteristic is how much skepticism it generated. The intensity of gains that defined the stock market bubbles of the 1920s and 1990s never developed. Instead, many investors spent the past decade deriding the rally and anticipating its demise.Bull markets are usually driven by a strengthening economy that fuels corporate profits. But the economic scars of the downturn a decade ago were deep and the recovery slow. For much of the past decade, economic growth remained lackluster; corporate earnings, at least until last year, were uninspiring; and the global economy bounced from one crisis to the next. There was the sovereign debt crisis that wracked the eurozone, concerns about the health of China’s economy and its growing debt load, tumbling oil prices that dragged down energy-sector profits, and, most recently, concerns about global economy and trade.True, the bull market never succumbed to these worries (although it came awfully close more than once). Credit for that goes to the world’s central banks whose efforts to keep interest rates low made bond investments and other alternatives unappealing, and kept fueling the stock buying. This is not to say that investors weren’t excited about some stocks. Investors piled into shares of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft and those four stock had a big effect on the S&P 500, particularly in the last few years. Over the past decade, and factoring in dividends, the four biggest tech companies accounted for 9 percent of the gains in the S&P 500, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices.When it comes to actual performance of their shares, Alphabet and Microsoft gained more than 600 percent over the past decade, while Apple jumped nearly 1,400 percent and Amazon surged nearly 2,600 percent.It wasn’t just the tech companies themselves that fared well. The best-performing bank stock over the past decade was SVB Financial, Silicon Valley’s so-called hometown bank, which rose almost 1,900 percent. For all the attention paid to technology shares though, the honor of best-performing stock in the S&P 500 over the past decade actually goes to Ulta Beauty, the cosmetics retailer. Its shares have surged more than 7,000 percent.The Bull Market Began 10 Years Ago. Why Aren’t More People Celebrating?Americans are still scarred by the financial crisis, and the fruits of this decade’s record-breaking rally fell mostly to the rich.By Matt PhillipsMarch 9, 2019The financial system had nearly collapsed. The deepest recession in decades was devouring over 700,000 jobs a month. Roughly $13 trillion in stock market wealth, slowly rebuilt since the dot-com bust, had again been incinerated. It was March 2009. And it was one of the best times in a generation to buy stocks.A decade later, the bull market that began back then ranks among the great rallies in stock-market history. The 305 percent surge in the S&P 500 is the index’s second-best run ever.The rise has generated more than $30 trillion in wealth. Adjusted for inflation, that is the most created during any bull run on record, edging out the $25 trillion in gains during the epic streak from December 1987 to March 2000, which ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble, according to Federal Reserve data.But compared with Americans’ attitudes during that earlier climb, reactions to the latest rally are downright subdued. There has been no frenzy for stock trading. Nobody is quitting an accounting, advertising, or waitressing job to concentrate on day trading.Why so somber? The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily. Fewer people are invested in stocks than before that meltdown, and many of them are wary of taking their gains for granted. That caution could last for decades.“This was probably the most disliked or most suspected rally that we’ve ever had in the stock market,” said Charles Geisst, a professor at Manhattan College who has studied the history of financial markets. Birth of the BullOn March 9, 2009, the day the bull market was born, the stock market, like the economy, was in deep, seemingly existential distress. The S&P 500 was down 57 percent from its 2007 peak. Compounding the pain was the nationwide collapse in home prices, which landed a direct hit on most households’ greatest source of wealth. The one-two punch destroyed the finances of millions of families. Between 2007 and 2010, the median wealth of a household in the United States dropped 44 percent, knocked below 1969 levels.Every crash has a bottom, though, and in March 2009, the Federal Reserve announced that it would spend $1 trillion in newly created dollars on government and mortgage bonds to push interest rates lower. It was the dawn of “quantitative easing” — and, it would turn out, a new bull market. The S&P 500 rose 8.5 percent that month, its best monthly performance in more than six years.“That should have been the signal to everyone that you can go out there and buy stocks with impunity,” said Byron Wien, vice chairman of the private wealth group at Blackstone, the private equity firm.But to buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.Those who could were already well-off. In 2007, the wealthiest 10 percent of American families owned 81 percent of the nation’s household stock market wealth, according Ed Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University who studies the distribution of wealth in the United States. By 2016, they owned 84 percent, he said.The recovery in the stock market made those families even richer, increasing their net worth by double-digit percentages. Median American family wealth, meanwhile, dropped 34 percent.In the past, such episodes of wealth destruction cast long shadows. For much of the 20th century, the financial habits of the American public were heavily influenced by memories of the Great Depression.Even in the 1960s, survey data showed that people who were young during the Great Depression were much less likely to invest in stocks, according to research by two economists, Ulrike Malmendier of the University of California, Berkeley, and Stefan Nagel of the University of Chicago. The 2008 crisis was nowhere near as severe, but a similar dynamic may be affecting people who started their working lives around that time.Gallup survey data shows that in the last decade, an average of 38 percent of Americans under the age of 35 have money invested in the stock market. That compares with 52 percent before the crisis. Playing It SafeEven those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds. In the decade since the bull market began, the share of Americans investing via index funds, which aim to mimic the performance of benchmarks like the S&P 500, has increased significantly. In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.Americans also appear to be less willing than in previous booms to let the rise in stock market wealth on paper lead to a surge in spending. Family savings rates have stayed stubbornly high by historical standards.“Households continue to kind of treat their capital gains, realized or unrealized, more cautiously than they did in the 1990s or the 2000s,” said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at J.P. Morgan.In part, this is because many stock owners are baby boomers, who might have enjoyed spending their stock market gains 20 years ago but are now more worried about preserving wealth as they retire. Fred Wallace, a 64-year-old retired HBO executive in Los Angeles is one of them. When the stock market took a dive in December, he cut his holdings of stock and moved money into cash and bonds.“That allows you to sleep at night because you know that if stocks tank it doesn’t really matter,” Mr. Wallace said. But even among Americans who are just starting their careers, this risk-aversion could linger. Research from Ms. Malmendier and Mr. Nagel, the economists, suggests that enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades. Younger Americans, Ms. Malmendier said, are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.“We don’t see that happening,” she said. “People were scarred from that experience.”FRANKFURT — Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program devised during the financial crisis. On Thursday, it unexpectedly reversed course and revived some of the measures, signaling the rising threat of a recession.The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.The United States is Europe’s largest trading partner, while China is an increasingly important market for its cars, pharmaceuticals and manufactured goods. The industrial powerhouse Germany barely escaped recession in the latest quarter, as the country’s economy was battered by the American tariffs on its steel and waning Chinese appetite for its machine tools and Volkswagens.Europe has been particularly vulnerable to global forces, given the turmoil at home. The uncertainty over Britain’s exit from the European Union has put pressure on the British economy, while Italy and Spain have been shaken by their own political fissures.The struggles abroad have the potential to blow back on the United States, which has been the star performer among global economies. History shows that the American economy cannot escape problems in Europe, given their deep commercial ties. And the Chinese slowdown amplifies the risks.“We’re looking at the potential for a synchronized slowdown of the global economy,” said Carl B. Weinberg, chief international economist at High Frequency Economics.Against that backdrop, the European Central Bank’s Governing Council voted unanimously on Thursday to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.The stimulus program was used to prevent collapse of the eurozone following the 2008 financial crisis. It allows commercial banks to borrow money from the central bank at zero interest, but they have to promise to lend the money to businesses or consumers.Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. “Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions” was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said at a news briefing. He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months, saying there would be no change until 2020. That means that Mr. Draghi will serve his full nine-year term without ever having overseen a rate increase. He leaves office at the end of October.“The bank is saying, ‘We are doing everything we can,’” said Florian Hense, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.The past decade had been rough for Europe.The global financial crisis, which set off the European sovereign debt crisis, forced Mr. Draghi to unleash extraordinary stimulus measures to keep the eurozone from being torn apart. Mr. Draghi, who famously vowed to “do whatever it takes” to keep the bloc intact, oversaw a vast de facto money printing program in which the bank bought trillions of euros of government and corporate bonds.Europe seemed to have finally turned a corner last year, and Mr. Draghi began cautiously unwinding its program of bond buying, a strategy known as quantitative easing. The bank stopped adding to its bond portfolio in December, and also set the stage for an increase in its key interest rates as early as this September.Those moves were an expression of confidence that the world’s major economies would shrug off President Trump’s trade war and continue to grow strongly. But a few months later, the picture looks decidedly worse.Italy is in recession and Germany came close. Britain’s attempt to leave the European Union proved even more difficult and disruptive than expected.Even the weather seemed to conspire against Europe. An unusually dry and hot summer caused the water level in the Rhine River to drop so low that barge traffic became impossible, disrupting transport of chemicals and fuel, causing shortages and driving up prices.The timing of the overseas slowdown could not be worse from the United States’ perspective. It’s happening just as the American economy is expected to slow down after the economic high of the tax cuts that went into effect last year starts to wear off.In that environment, the United States and its companies will be more dependent on the health of trading partners like Europe. “The U.S. needs the rest of the world a bit more than last year,” said Brad W. Setser, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.Economic weakness abroad can also send American stock markets into a tailspin.In 2011, when investors feared that a wave of European governments and companies might default on their debts, American stocks fell nearly 20 percent from their highs. In 2015, the S&P 500 plunged after China’s central bank made a surprise move that reduced the value of the country’s currency against the dollar.The sudden announcement by the European Central Bank on Thursday was out of character. Typically, the bank changes policy gradually and gives investors plenty of warning.The bank also displayed an unusually high level of determination and unity. All of the members of the Governing Council supported the decisions on Thursday, Mr. Draghi said. That has not always been the case. During the crisis years the council, which includes central bankers from all 19 countries in the eurozone, was often divided on its response.Still, the central bank is treading cautiously, waiting to see what happens with the economy. It did not take the more radical step of increasing its purchases of government and corporate bonds. That form of stimulus is associated with extreme stress and might have been taken as a sign of panic.Mr. Draghi also emphasized on Thursday that the central bank never really ended the bond buying program in December — it just stopped expanding it. When bonds in the bank’s portfolio pay interest or the borrowers pay the money back, the bank will use the funds to buy more bonds. That means the holdings, valued at $2.8 trillion, will remain stable.And Mr. Draghi said the central bank would do more if the economy took a turn for the worse. “We are very open to act and determined to act when it’s needed,” he said.The bank’s change of heart reflected the views of its in-house economists, who significantly lowered their forecasts for growth and inflation. They now expect eurozone growth in 2019 to be 1.1 percent, rather than the 1.7 percent growth they were forecasting only a few months ago.The moves provided a short-lived jolt to European stock markets. The major indexes, which had been lower for the day, briefly jumped into positive territory. But any euphoria about the stimulus may have been outweighed by the realization that the central bank is more worried about the economy than investors thought. Stocks slumped in Europe and, later in the day, on Wall Street.“Today’s announcements have some flavor of panic,” Carsten Brzeski, chief economist at ING Germany, said in a note to clients.When Adrian Ward and his fiancée, Maren McLaughlin-Klotz, started house-hunting in Austin, Tex., they decided to overhaul how they talked about, and handled, money.They shared their credit histories. They read and discussed the book “1,001 Questions to Ask Before You Get Married.” They began weekly budget chats and established a joint wedding fund. They even started meeting with Dr. Ward’s adviser to review their retirement accounts and made plans to return every year.Dr. Ward, 32 and a marketing professor, had recently collaborated on research that showed what could happen when one partner in a couple is “pegged as the money person,” as he was. He was shocked to realize that his own research showed he and Ms. McLaughlin-Klotz, 31, were going about it all wrong.Ms. McLaughlin-Klotz shared his concerns. “I know a lot of marriages have problems because of finances, and I would not want to set us up for failure,” she said.The findings showed that what can begin as a practical solution — to have one person handle everything — can come at a cost to the uninvolved partner’s skills. The cost is especially steep when couples figure in the need for retirement planning, or even when one partner finds themselves alone, after a death or divorce.The research, by Dr. Ward, of the McCombs School of Business at the University of Texas at Austin, and John G. Lynch, of the Leeds School of Business at the University of Colorado in Boulder, have found that people who took on more of the financial tasks acquired greater knowledge over time than their uninvolved partner, as measured by a 13-question financial literacy quiz.“If you’re paying attention, you get better over time,” Dr. Lynch said.One part of the research included a study of 86 participants, in which the researchers first assessed each person’s individual aptitude for financial and health care topics, then assigned partners and asked participants to read and remember as much information as they could during a five-minute period spent on the topics of finance (stocks, vehicle financing, life insurance and credit cards) and health care (heart health, the endocrine system, cancer and mental illness), according to the study.After giving participants a three-minute break, the researchers measured each partner’s ability to remember details they had learned from their reading by completing as many partial statements as possible in five minutes. The results showed a tendency for partners to divide tasks according to who they believed had greater skills, and even those who started out with less knowledge acquired more when assigned the role of the “money person.”“They’re totally missing that really they started in the same place, but by accepting these roles, you’re determining who has financial literacy,” Dr. Ward said.A study sponsored by Fidelity Investments conducted in April tracked partners’ confidence in handling financial tasks when they were more involved and less involved — finding that couples who worked together had greater confidence about their financial future.The company surveyed 1,662 couples across the country, with an average age of 52, who were either married or in a long-term committed relationship and living together. The respondents had either an annual household income of $75,000 or a minimum of $100,000 in assets to invest. When they were asked about their ability to assume full responsibility for their retirement finances and strategy, almost all — 93 percent of those who said they had primary responsibility and 87 percent with joint responsibility, said they felt confident in doing so.By contrast, only 52 percent of the less involved partners expressed confidence in taking over the financial role. Notably, those who were not participating showed more unease when asked about “not being prepared financially if my significant other passes away first,” with 41 percent of the less involved respondents saying they were concerned, versus only 10 percent of those who said they had primary financial responsibility and 18 percent who said they handled tasks jointly.Even a well-intentioned spouse can leave a partner feeling uncertain about her ability to make good choices alone — but worried and fearful at worst, especially if one is left in potential financial jeopardy.Kathleen M. Rehl is a financial adviser and researcher in St. Petersburg, Fla., and the author of “Moving Forward on Your Own: A Financial Guidebook for Widows.” She recalled a newly widowed client who had gladly ceded the financial decision-making to her husband for years. The client was following a gut instinct in hiring her, Ms. Rehl said, and expressed it this way: “I never really understood that stuff that Jim did, but my tummy tells me it might be wrong.”When Ms. Rehl looked at her client’s portfolio, she found 90 percent of the holdings were in international stocks — an aggressive risk profile for any investor, let alone a retiree in her 70s. Together, they developed a more balanced portfolio, composed of a blend of stock and bond index funds designed to weather market volatility. Even when they agreed to rejigger the investments, it proved hard for Ms. Rehl’s client to make such a big decision alone, even though she eventually followed through. “She said, ‘Stop, I can’t do it,’” Ms. Rehl said. “She said, ‘It’s like I’m slapping Jim in the face.’”Facing major choices alone can be disorienting — even when a couple have prepared for it together.When Liz Hobert, of Mount Dora, Fla., 68, and her husband, Bruce, were in their 50s, they wanted to make sure they both had a clear view of their finances — so they enrolled in a financial course held at a local community college.“We came out not any better than we had been before,” Ms. Hobert said, describing a “mess” of six insurance policies and a collection of pensions and stock and bond accounts handled by different advisers. “We had all these pieces but we really didn’t know what we would have in retirement and wondered, ‘Are we ever going to be able to retire?’”Working with Ms. Rehl, they consolidated accounts, started saving more aggressively, and set a goal of retiring in their 60s. When Mr. Hobert died five years ago, Ms. Hobert said she felt reassured when Ms. Rehl urged her not to worry about money or making any big decisions for six months based on the planning they had completed.Even though Ms. McLaughlin-Klotz and Dr. Ward are years away from retirement, they have already started talking about the long term.Now, he said, “There’s complete transparency” about their finances. “It would be easier for me to do everything, but the easiest thing isn’t necessarily the best thing.”Ms. McLaughlin-Klotz said she was glad they are working on it, though she has also found it challenging. “It’s a really uncomfortable topic, but we talk about it all the time. I want to make sure I’m contributing so it was important for me that we had those conversations so I don’t feel left out.”Sheryl Garrett, a certified financial planner in Eureka Springs, Ark., has tips for couples:How can couples talk about money without fighting about it? To begin, don’t start by talking dollars and cents. Instead, try to create a clear picture of long-term wishes. Each person can start by making a list of 30 goals, dividing them into three categories, called “I would love to,” “like to” and “it’s not that important.” They could range from the practical, such as saving for retirement or starting a family, to desires such as living overseas or studying a new language. (One of Ms. Garrett’s personal goals is to master conversational Mandarin — a skill she is still working on.) Next, swap lists and begin talking about how to create a plan together to make those ideas happen.What concrete steps should we take every year? Take stock of your financial situation annually by looking at each person’s net worth separately and the couple’s net worth together, Ms. Garrett said. Compare where you were a year ago and start thinking about what changes you want to make in the year ahead.What ground rules should couples follow to help stay on track? Set aside time — no more than 30 minutes — to talk about money at least once a month. Try to find a low-stress time, perhaps a weekend night, and involve everyone in the household — including children. Consider modeling how to work through the kinds of financial trade-offs you need to make as a family. For instance, would you rather have a lavish trip or go camping, allowing a lasting purchase like a trampoline, which everyone could enjoy on a regular basis? Commit to talking together with “no blame and no shame,” Ms. Garrett said.Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to your quick and painless summary of tech and business news. You don’t need reminding that it’s the shortest weekend of the year; make the most of it.MARCH 3-9What’s Up? Pull Up a Digital ChairFacebook, the platform known for sharing your personal information with the world whether you like it or not, is going for a more discreet vibe these days. The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wants to nudge users toward “private” messaging and away from blasting their networks with status updates, a trend he says is already underway. He likened his new vision, which will integrate other Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram and WhatsApp, to a “digital living room” where people can have intimate discussions secure from outsiders. (He emphasized the term “encrypted.”) It’s unclear how this pivot will affect Facebook’s business model, and critics have pointed out the obvious paradox of a company known for playing fast and loose with users’ data suddenly espousing privacy protection.Still Hiring, but BarelyYet another sign that the country’s economy may be cooling: February’s disappointing jobs numbers. Only 20,000 new jobs were added, far less than the 175,000 that analysts had predicted. It’s the weakest report since September 2017, but on the upside, it still marks the 101st consecutive month of growth. Wall Street got good news this past week as regulators eased their oversight of the nation’s biggest banks. The policy shift is part of the Trump administration’s promise to call off the watchdogs put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, rules that the financial industry has criticized as hampering economic growth. While these rollbacks may help stoke markets, they could also lead to a less transparent financial system — and a repeat of past mistakes. Out of the KitchenGo back to enjoying your pasta: The Italian food impresario Mario Batali has formally exited his dining empire. More than a year after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment and assault, he “will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way, shape or form,” said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will run the remaining 16 establishments in Mr. Batali’s former portfolio. She and her brother, Mr. Batali’s erstwhile business partner Joe Bastianich, bought the disgraced chef’s shares in the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group for an undisclosed sum. Mr. Batali will also hand over the keys to Eataly, the chain of Italian food emporiums. MARCH 10-16What’s Next? Tesla Thinks BiggerIf you’ve been holding out for a Tesla that can fit your family and Elon Musk’s ego, the automaker will unveil its new crossover S.U.V., the Model Y, at the company’s Los Angeles design studio this week. Mr. Musk, the chief executive, said that the Model Y will be about 10 percent roomier than the Model 3 sedan, have slightly less battery range and come at a higher price. Tesla could certainly use the revenue boost. In its effort to sell the Model 3 for a long-promised $35,000, it’s had to lay off workers, close showrooms and cut other costs — moves that have battered its stock price. Eyes on 2020Wondering what the growing crowd of presidential candidates will be talking about this coming week, in addition to the country’s new record-high trade deficit? Well, President Trump is expected to deliver his budget proposal for 2020 this Monday, about a month late because of the government shutdown earlier this year. Lower tax revenue and increased government spending have driven up annual budget deficits, which now are expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But Mr. Trump is likely to play down those numbers and focus on spending cuts instead. A Reckoning for BrexitIt’s understandable if you’ve been ignoring the Brexit commotion; all that back-and-forth was getting tedious. But now is the time to start paying attention, as talks come down to the wire. Britain’s House of Commons will vote on the latest version of Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan this Tuesday. If it is rejected — as it probably will be — then Parliament will vote on whether to leave the European Union without a deal or to delay Britain’s departure beyond the original March 29 deadline. Either way, the path doesn’t look smooth, and the European Central Bank is bracing itself. On Thursday, it abruptly reversed course and revived its stimulus measures.What Else?Uber will not be held criminally liable for the death of a woman who was hit by a self-driving test car in Arizona last year, although its safety driver — who was sitting in the driver’s seat at the time of the accident — still could face charges. In other news, a new cosmetics deal has made Kylie Jenner, at 21 years old, the world’s youngest “self-made” billionaire (the “self-made” label is up for debate, but hey, the money’s real). Perhaps she’ll buy this Bugatti, which set a record last week as the world’s most expensive car at $19 million.Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A best-selling Boeing airplane is groundedThe future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Trump’s next budget fightUndeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]Would a trade deal with China have too much compromise?In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”A big week for BrexitTomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.Jay Powell says Trump can’t fire himThe Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.The bull market is 10. Why so sad?We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”Twitter is struggling to change how we tweetA year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.” I.M.F. chief calls for a global tax shake-upIn an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Revolving doorSam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.The speed readDealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Lyft pulled back the curtain on its business for the first time on Friday as it prepared to go public, officially starting the countdown on a horde of technology offerings that are set to bring new wealth to Silicon Valley this year.By publicly unveiling the prospectus for its initial public offering, Lyft signaled its intention to meet investors in what is known as a roadshow in about two weeks, after which it will most likely start trading on the stock market in April. The ride-sharing company leads a stampede of other highly valued private tech companies that plan to go public this year, including its archrival, Uber, as well as Slack, Pinterest and Postmates.But Lyft’s filing also raised questions about the financial health of the tech companies that are planning I.P.O.s. Its filing revealed that while it was growing quickly, its losses were widening. Last year, the company’s revenue totaled $2.2 billion, while it lost $911.3 million.“We have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future,” Lyft said in the filing, adding that it expects to spend more as it expands into new offerings and locations.The prospectus is the first time that Lyft has made extensive details of its finances publicly available. Its public offering is being led by JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Jefferies. Lyft did not disclose the market valuation it is seeking from public investors; it was last valued at $15.1 billion by private investors during a financing round in June.[Lyft and Uber said to offer drivers a chance to participate in I.P.O.s.]Lyft filed confidentially to go public in December, the same day Uber did. Both companies are dueling to hold their offerings ahead of the other, in an attempt to be the first publicly traded ride-hailing company. But the onus has mostly been on Lyft to get out first because Uber — estimated to go public at a valuation of as much as $120 billion — would potentially steamroll its much smaller rival.Both companies are set to face questions about when and how they will become profitable. The ride-hailing business is inherently expensive because companies typically pay incentives to recruit drivers and offer discounts to riders. In addition, the companies are spending heavily to grow in areas such as autonomous driving and bike sharing.In 2018, Lyft’s revenue more than doubled to $2.2 billion from $1.1 billion in 2017, according to its filing. But losses mounted, rising to $911.3 million last year from $688.3 million in 2017, though they declined as a percentage of revenue. Total costs and expenses were $3.1 billion in 2018, up 77 percent from $1.8 billion in 2017.Uber, which has disclosed its finances for several years even though it is not public, said in February that it lost $842 million in the final quarter of 2018 on revenue of $3 billion. The firm has been trying to turn its image around after a series of scandals involving its workplace culture and onetime hardball business tactics.Lyft also said 18.6 million people took at least one ride in the last quarter of 2018, up from 6.6 million in late 2016. And based on estimates by the Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which is an investor in Lyft, the company said it had a 39 percent share of the ride-sharing market in the United States, up from 22 percent in 2016.“Two years ago, I definitely viewed Lyft as a second-tier player,” said Jay Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida and an I.P.O. expert. “But Uber’s problems with bad publicity, a lot of self-inflicted stuff, really benefited Lyft.”Matt Kennedy, a senior I.P.O. market strategist at Renaissance Capital, which provides institutional research on public offerings, said that it was possible Uber would bite back and that Lyft’s growth would decline.“The number of I.P.O.s that we’ve seen with $2 billion in revenue and growing at 100 percent are few and far between,” he said.Founded by Logan Green and John Zimmer in 2007, Lyft was initially called Zimride and focused on pooling riders for long-distance trips. By 2012, the pair had renamed their company Lyft and shifted the business to providing brief local trips, mimicking taxi rides.The company presented itself as a genial alternative to Uber. In its early days, Lyft encouraged drivers to strap fuzzy pink mustaches to their front bumpers and to greet riders — who often sat in the front seat — with fist bumps. Although Lyft has since lost the furry fender ornaments, it has maintained its softer image.On Friday in its prospectus, Lyft continued to emphasize that image as giving it an edge. In a founders’ letter, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer wrote that their focus on doing the right thing provided them with a “lasting competitive advantage.”Unlike Uber, which has operations across the globe, Lyft operates in the United States and Canada. It has matched Uber’s efforts to develop self-driving cars and has also expanded into short-term bike and scooter rentals.The company also disclosed that it planned to have two classes of stock: Class A shares, which carry one vote each, and Class B shares, which carry 20 votes apiece. Lyft plans to sell only Class A shares in its public offering.Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who could become billionaires from the offering, each own millions of shares of Class B stock, giving them significant control over the company. In having separate classes of shares — and letting its founders have more power than other shareholders — Lyft is following a well-worn tech company tradition, one adopted by Facebook, Snap and others.“Lyft has the opportunity to deliver one of the most significant shifts to society since the advent of the car,” Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer said in their founders’ letter. “We do not take that lightly, and we intend to lead this shift with integrity, humanity and strong execution.”Among Lyft’s biggest investors are Rakuten; General Motors; Fidelity, the investment management giant; Andreessen Horowitz, the venture capital firm; and Alphabet, the parent of Google, according to the filing.One group that helped build Lyft — its drivers, who are independent contractors — will not share much in the public offering spoils since they do not own stock in the company. Lyft is now working on a cash program to give some drivers money to buy its stock at the time of the I.P.O. The company intends to give $1,000 each to drivers who have completed 10,000 rides for the service; those who have done 20,000 rides will receive $10,000.SAN FRANCISCO — Big wealth doesn’t come in monthly paychecks. It comes when a start-up goes public, transforming hypothetical money into extremely real money. This year — with Uber, Lyft, Slack, Postmates, Pinterest and Airbnb all hoping to enter the public markets — there’s going to be a lot of it in the Bay Area.Estimates of Uber’s value on the market have been as high as $120 billion. Airbnb was most recently valued at $31 billion, with Lyft and Pinterest around $15 billion and $12 billion. It’s anyone’s guess what prices these companies actually will command once they go public, but even conservative estimates predict hundreds of billions of dollars will flood into town in the next year, creating thousands of new millionaires. It’s hard to imagine more money in San Francisco, but the city’s residents now need to start trying.Welcomed finally into the elite caste who can afford to live comfortably in the Bay Area, the fleet of new millionaires are already itching to claim what has been promised all these years.They want cars. They want to open new restaurants. They want to throw bigger parties. And they want houses.One recent night, in a packed room with a view of the Bay Bridge and an open bar, real estate investors gathered. Standing at the front presenting was Deniz Kahramaner, a real estate agent specializing in data analytics at Compass.“Are we going to see a one-bedroom condo that’s worth less than $1 million in five years?” he asked the crowd. “Are we going to see single family homes selling for one to three million?”No, he said, not anymore. The energy rose as he revealed more data about new millionaires and about just how few new units have been built for them. San Francisco single-family home sale prices could climb to an average of $5 million, he said, to gasps.[Sign up for California Today, our newsletter for Californians and people who care about California.]“All cash. These are all cash buyers,” he said. “It’s just going to be astounding.”Now, seemingly the whole city — and not just the financial planners and the real estate agents and the protesters who block tech buses — is scrambling to prepare.Housing MadnessAs the idea of the coming I.P.O.-palooza took on currency, sellers started pulling their houses off the market. The broader California housing market has softened, and home sales are down, but here’s one fix for that. “Even if just half the I.P.O.s happen, there’s going to be ten thousand millionaires overnight,” said Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaires everywhere left and right.’”One of those is his client Rick Rider, a 61-year-old C.E.O. who decided not to publicly list his Bay Area house until some of the I.P.O.s have happened.“Our particular house is not a family home. It’s a Double Income No Kids sort of home,” Mr. Rider said. “So it would potentially play well for a lot of the people that would be benefiting from the I.P.O.s.”The spending wars will likely stay close to work. “The millennial tech workers are really looking for convenience,” said Christine Kim, the president of Climb Real Estate. “They seem to not want to own cars, and food deliveries are really easy now, and they want to be close to entertainment, so they’ll stay in the city.”When Google in Mountain View and Facebook in Menlo Park went public, their workers were spread across the Bay Area, and so the impact on housing was diffuse. Now, many of the biggest start-ups are based in San Francisco, in part thanks to the city’s tax breaks. Brokers say San Francisco is where the workers want to stay.In 2018 there were 5,644 properties sold in San Francisco and only 2,208 of those were single family homes. Software employees represent more than 50 percent of those buying, according to Compass. One real estate firm estimates an average one-bedroom in the city now rents for $3,690 per month. (Another firm puts that average at $3,551.)“Now you’ve got all these I.P.O.s at the same time, and we’ll potentially have thousands of young people, all now with money, looking to buy homes,” said Shane Ray, a real estate agent. “You’ll be able to feel it.”Those in the market for a house are trying to buy them fast while the inventory shrinks but before the wave hits.“I had this sense of existential dread that if we didn’t buy before all the I.P.O.s, we would forever be priced out,” said Tom McLeod, the founder of storage start-up Omni, who has been renting for nearly a decade. “We ended up pulling the trigger.”Don’t Buy BoatsCompanies instill in their employees a belief that stock only goes up. At this point, a decade since their founding, start-ups like Uber and Airbnb have been asking their employees to hold that faith for a long time. Now, wealth managers are hoping to rattle the religious.Ryan S. Cole, a private wealth adviser at Citrine Capital, said he has started getting an influx of new clients who are preparing for wealth. He is worried. This generation of the start-up wealthy seem especially bullish on their company’s success.“We’ve been trying to get them to exercise a little more caution, just because they’re so excited,” Mr. Cole said. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn.”He cautions that no one can be sure how well a stock will do. A company like Uber is still dramatically unprofitable, he tries to remind his clients. So many I.P.O.s turn out to be busts. Groupon opened around $26 a share and now trades around $3; Snap opened around $27 and now trades at $9.“A lot of them are young — they’ve just seen their valuations going up forever and they don’t really understand that tech stocks are volatile,” Mr. Cole said. “And they have their managers painting especially rosy pictures of where the company is headed to get them to work harder.”Mostly, he just urges his clients not to spend too much yet.“They shouldn’t be buying boats,” Mr. Cole said. “We see a little bit of that.” Electric bikes, on the other hand, are a favorite mode of transportation for the San Francisco tech worker. Owners of the electric bike shop New Wheel say they are preparing for the I.P.O.s by ordering 30 percent more of the Stromer ST3 — the most popular configuration retails for around $7,500 — and 200 percent more of the Riese & Muller front-loader bikes, which sell for around $9,500. Michael Biggica, the founder of Pixel Financial Planning, said 2019 is the year of “pent-up demand” and that the excitement of a windfall can be intoxicating.“My role is eliminating that emotion,” Mr. Biggica said.Jonathan K. DeYoe, another private wealth adviser in the region, started working with tech clients in 1997 during the first dot-com boom. He said it was pretty exciting back then. Now, as he thinks about thousands of new millionaires coming onto the scene, he is worried about the region’s inequality.“There’s some who’ve talked about pitchforks,” Mr. DeYoe said. “And I don’t think we’ll go there, but there’s a point when that makes sense.”“It’s very visible,” Mr. DeYoe said. “This kind of wealth is very visible.”Party CityIn cities like Oakland and Berkeley and San Francisco, millennials obsess over Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Twitter and attend Democratic Socialists of America meetings. But the socialist passion doesn’t seem to have impacted the city’s zeal for I.P.O. parties, which the party planning community says are going to surpass past booms.Jay Siegan, a former live music club owner who now curates private entertainment and music, is gearing up. He has worked on events for many of the I.P.O. hopefuls, including Uber, Airbnb, Slack, Postmates and Lyft.“We see multiple parties per I.P.O. for the company that is I.P.O.ing, as well as firms that are associated to them,” Mr. Siegan said. Budgets for start-up parties, he said, can easily go above $10 million. “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives. They want ballet performers.”A popular new feature he’s noticing is clients hoping to curate their own theme concerts featuring fleets of bands. Mr. Siegan says he put on one for a 1980s loving tech executive, featuring the B-52s, Devo, The Bangles, Tears for Fears and Flock of Seagulls.In a warehouse in Concord, Calif., the I.P.O. ice sculptor is getting ready to staff up for what he says will be a long year.“It’s going to be a lot of 14-hour days,” said Robert Chislett, founder of Chisel-it, who has around 15 ice sculptors currently employed.Together, they have chiseled a full-size ice car for a tech executive’s party in Atherton and a 10-foot ice Taj Mahal for another’s swimming pool in San Jose. But, he says, I.P.O.ing executives usually want predictable things. An ice chair with the logo on the back, for photos. A lot of logos carved into ice rockets, to indicate that the company’s stock will be like a rocket. And ice cubes, for drinks, with the company logo on each one.To the Barricades and Back AgainAnd of course, the tech backlash, mostly quiet as stocks have vested, is preparing for its own revival.At Radio Habana Social Club in the Mission district, housing rights activists gathered one recent evening for a drink. By now, there is a well-known choreography: the cash comes flooding in to a few and the stock-less masses begin to gather. They will protest evictions, fight developers, organize against tax breaks and unfurl banners in front of tech buses.“It’s going to mean mass displacement,” said Sarah “Fred” Sherburn-Zimmer, the executive director of the Housing Rights Committee of San Francisco, of the coming wealth influx.She paused for a moment. “It feels like the same game,” she said. Activists stood elbow-to-elbow around a table of hummus and pepper jack cheese. “We’ve lived through boom times before,” said Maria Zamudio, the group’s associate director. “We’ve learned our lessons. We know what a massive influx of money looks like. Concessions we made in the past, we will not make this year.”BEIJING — A pending trade agreement between the United States and China could put few restrictions on Beijing’s control over the strength of its currency, potentially inflaming trade hawks in Congress and within the Trump administration itself.China’s control over the value of its currency has long been a major point of conflict between Beijing and the West, though the issue has faded in prominence in recent years. Lawmakers and officials in other countries have contended that Beijing has unfairly weakened China’s currency, the renminbi, compared with the American dollar and other currencies, giving Chinese companies and factories an advantage when selling goods abroad.China has long denied the accusation.Yi Gang, the governor of China’s central bank, said at a news conference on Sunday morning in Beijing that during high-level trade talks last month in Washington, “the two sides reached consensus on many key and important issues” about currency markets.The consensus included an understanding that both countries would avoid devaluing their currencies to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports, Mr. Yi said. Both countries would also continue to comply with previous currency agreements among the Group of 20 economies, he said. Both countries would also maintain close communication about currency markets and would disclose detailed information in accordance with International Monetary Fund standards, he added.American officials have taken varying stances on the currency provisions. President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have expressed satisfaction with them. But Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, cautioned Congress in testimony two weeks ago that nothing was fully resolved in the trade negotiations until everything had been settled.Though the issue has ebbed as China’s currency has strengthened in recent years, the trade war has given it new relevance. The renminbi fell 10 percent against the American dollar between February and October last year, to the intense annoyance of trade hawks in the Trump administration.In effect, that partly offset the 25 percent tariffs the Trump administration imposed over the summer on $50 billion a year in Chinese goods. It fully offset, at least temporarily, the 10 percent tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last fall on an additional $200 billion a year in Chinese goods.But the renminbi’s fall corresponded to a credit crunch in China and the precipitous slowing of the Chinese economy. Chinese officials contend that the renminbi’s fall reflected the strength of the dollar, not currency manipulation on their part. Miao Yanliang, the chief economist at the Chinese central bank, the People’s Bank of China, noted in a recent statement that the euro fell against the dollar at about the same pace as the renminbi from February to October last year, while the British pound fell even faster.Since the end of October, the renminbi has recovered nearly half its losses during last year’s slide. Foreign investors have poured money into China’s stock market and bond market. They hope to profit from China’s recent program of extra government spending and tax cuts, now being enacted to offset the economic slowdown.The currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued when the group’s finance ministers gathered in Shanghai in February 2016.In the Shanghai currency accord, all the group’s finance ministers agreed that they would not deliberately devalue their currencies with the purpose of achieving a competitive advantage for their exports. When a country’s currency falls in value, that makes the country’s exports less expensive and more competitive in foreign countries.But the Shanghai currency accord, like the currency provisions in the Sino-American trade agreement now being negotiated, still allowed currencies to move up and down for lots of other reasons. These reasons include differences in interest rates and varying investment flows, as well as trade surpluses and deficits.China has long contended that these variables determine what happens to the value of its currency, and that it does not deliberately undervalue its currency to help exporters.The Shanghai currency accord did not require China to peg its currency at a specific value with respect to the dollar. Nor did it require China to maintain stability in the value of its currency with respect to a weighted average of the currencies of China’s trading partners.Beijing argues that it is fairer to measure the renminbi’s value against a so-called basket of currencies of its trading partners, and not just against the dollar.The Shanghai currency accord also required G-20 finance ministers to notify each other of major changes in currency policy, and to disclose data in compliance with I.M.F. standards.In August 2015, China unexpectedly devalued its currency with no warning and very little explanation. It then quietly let the currency slide further from December 2015 through early January 2016.Japan had pushed hard for the Shanghai accord because of Japanese exporters’ alarm over the Chinese devaluation.That devaluation helped China’s exporters a little, but it came at a very high cost to Beijing. Once the renminbi started sliding, it proved very hard to stop. The central bank ended up spending $1 trillion of its $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves to stabilize the currency.Mr. Yi said on Sunday that the central bank now had a target of maintaining foreign exchange reserves of at least $3 trillion. The reserves have fluctuated at about that level for the past three years and totaled $3.09 trillion in February.That leaves very little room for the Chinese central bank to intervene again in currency markets without falling below the threshold set by Mr. Yi.The accusation by American officials that China manipulates its currency is based on a period from early 2001 to the summer of 2014 when the Chinese central bank did sell renminbi and buy dollars on a massive scale to keep the renminbi weak and help exporters.China’s foreign reserves ballooned 24 fold in that period, rising to $4 trillion from $166 billion and dwarfing every other country’s reserves.But since then, Chinese officials have struggled to prevent the renminbi from falling. As the Chinese economy has slowed, many Chinese companies and families have looked for ways to send money out of the country, potentially destabilizing not just the renminbi, but also the Chinese financial system.Beijing has responded since 2016 with increasingly draconian restrictions on capital movements. Using the formidable investigative and surveillance capabilities of the Chinese police, the government has jailed people involved in surreptitious movements of cash abroad.The crackdown has almost completely halted what had been a flood of Chinese money into American real estate and even European soccer clubs in 2015 and early 2016. China now approves few overseas acquisitions by its companies except in areas where it could acquire a geopolitical or military advantage, such as aircraft production, heavy manufacturing, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence.Mr. Yi spoke on Sunday at the annual news conference of the central bank’s leadership, held in conjunction with the 11-day session of the National People’s Congress.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Macy’s is closing stores. So are J. C. Penney, Family Dollar, Payless ShoeSource, Victoria’s Secret and Gap. On the flip side, Walmart and Target just reported their best sales growth in more than a decade.America’s retail industry is divided. As earnings season continues, it is becoming clear just how divided.On one side are the companies that have worked out online strategies to compete with Amazon, while also finding the right mix of products and services, like selling groceries, to keep shoppers coming into their stores.Amazon is still by far the leader in e-commerce, but Walmart, Target and Best Buy especially are increasingly challenging its dominance in online sales. They are using their physical stores to fulfill online orders — catering to shoppers’ demands for instant gratification — and increasing their digital promotions.Those efforts paid off in 2018, particularly during the holiday season. Walmart and Target just reported their best comparable year-over-year sales growth since before the financial crisis, bolstered in part by the growth of their online operations.Walmart’s digital revenue rose 40 percent last year, and the company is now the third-largest online retailer in the United States, according to data from eMarketer. Target’s e-commerce revenue increased nearly as much, and the company said that about 75 percent of its online sales during the fourth quarter were fulfilled in stores. Best Buy’s turnaround maintained its momentum in 2018. The electronics retailer’s comparable sales growth the past two years is its highest in more than a decade.The three companies also benefited from the struggles and store closings of retailers like Toys “R” Us and Sears.Then there are the laggards.Investors had high hopes for department stores like Macy’s, Kohl’s, J. C. Penney and Nordstrom last year. The economy was strong, consumer confidence was high, and shoppers had extra money to spend as a result of the tax cuts.Shares of the four department store chains rose more than 30 percent in the first half of the year, before they succumbed to a broad market sell-off. But the results they have reported recently show that some of the early hopes reflected in the stock increases were premature.The chains’ performance is tied in part to the struggling malls that their stores often anchor. Many of those shopping centers have been hollowed out in recent years and have failed to keep up with the changing tastes and buying habits of American consumers.J. C. Penney reported declining sales for the holiday season, while Macy’s warned that its sales are unlikely to increase much in the year ahead. Both companies also announced additional store closings.Sales for two mall stalwarts, Gap and L Brands, the parent company of Victoria’s Secret, also fell short of Wall Street’s forecasts, and the pair announced more store closings.Nordstrom reported that comparable sales at its full-price stores had declined 1.6 percent. But the company’s results were lifted by another shift among consumers: a growing move toward discount chains. Comparable sales at Nordstrom Rack, the company’s off-price store, rose 4 percent.One department store chain has managed to avoid the gloom. Kohl’s same-store sales and forecast for the year ahead beat Wall Street’s expectations. Why? A partnership with Amazon to sell the Echo and other products from the e-commerce giant while allowing Amazon customers to return purchases to Kohl’s stores.Just three months ago, investors were in a panic over the idea that the Federal Reserve might push borrowing costs too high and tip the United States economy into a recession. Now, Wall Street is toying with the idea that the central bank could actually be cutting interest rates by the end of the year. Those forecasts are evident in the market for interest rate futures, where the odds of another interest rate increase in 2019 have fallen to zero, from about 30 percent in December, while the chance of a decrease in rates has risen to almost one in three. One reason for the changing forecasts? The Fed’s own signal to be more patient as it evaluates whether or not to keep raising interest rates. Since the central bank’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, first spoke about this newfound patience, stocks have soared more than 15 percent. “It’s been a night-and-day difference, the outlook for stocks going from December into the first quarter this year,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank in New York. “And I think you could say that Federal Reserve policy was very important in underpinning the stock market rally.”On Wednesday, the Fed left interest rates unchanged and members of its monetary policy committee issued projections that showed they expected no interest rate increases in 2019. Although stocks ended the day slightly lower, they rose in the afternoon after the central bank announced its decision.The Fed isn’t the only reason that the market is up. Some analysts point toward rising hopes for a United States-China trade deal as helping to lift important technology and industrial shares. But sectors sensitive to interest rates — small companies for which borrowing costs make up a significant expense, and homebuilders and carmakers whose customers depend on financing — have posted some of the bigger gains in this rally.The stock market has risen even as forecasts for economic growth have shown concern about a slowdown. Economists expect that the United States grew at an annualized pace of less than 2 percent in the first quarter, a slowdown from the 3 percent growth posted in 2018. And stock analysts have continued to downgrade their expectations for profits this year. Since the end of 2018, full-year profit estimates for companies in the S&P 500 have declined 3 percent, according to FactSet, a financial data provider.Investors who have so far sat out the 2019 rally, because of concerns about the economy or profits, may be coming around to the idea that it is a mistake to do so when the Fed is so clearly the primary driver of gains. Last week, more than $25 billion surged into funds that buy American stocks, according to data from EPFR Global, a firm that tracks mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. “It could be that the chase is on,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “People could be suddenly saying, ‘I’ve got to get involved.’”For “The Hummingbird Project,” a sturdy, involving thriller set in the financial realm, the writer-director Kim Nguyen has cited heady inspirations like Michael Lewis’s book “Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt” (2014) and a Wired magazine article from 2012 on high-speed trading. But strip away the topical trappings and what is left is another variation on the obstacle course tension and male bonding of “The Wages of Fear” — or a dark variation on marathon road-trip goofs such as “It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World” and “Death Race 2000.”Vincent (Jesse Eisenberg) and his cousin Anton (Alexander Skarsgard) want to run a fiber-optic cable from Kansas to stock exchange servers in New Jersey, securing a millisecond advantage over other algorithmic traders. To maximize the gain, the cable must run absolutely straight, through property, mountains and water, a colossal engineering job for which they have hired Marc (Michael Mando, from “Better Call Saul”). But their boss (Salma Hayek), soon to be former, spends heavily to stall the private-works effort.“The Hummingbird Project” may be too committed to its popcorn mechanics to double as a truly brainy exposé, but it pays other dividends. Eisenberg adds unexpected shades of humanity to his lizard persona from “The Social Network,” while a bald, unrecognizable Skarsgard pulls off the difficult feat of being sympathetically antisocial as a coder driven batty by his work. As the geological, financial and personal barriers the cousins face grow increasingly absurd, the movie works up a satisfying sweat.LONDON — The financial technology provider Fidelity National Information Services agreed on Monday to buy Worldpay for about $34 billion, in a bid to become a powerhouse in the global payments sector.The deal is among the biggest in the industry, as companies race to capture a share of the booming payments market. Companies like Worldpay are often invisible to consumers, but they process the escalating number of e-commerce transactions and purchases made through contactless payment systems like Apple Pay.That growth has already driven some big deals. In January, Fiserv agreed to buy another big processor, First Data, for about $22 billion.Acquiring Worldpay, a former unit of the Royal Bank of Scotland that itself has grown through acquisitions, would give Fidelity National Information Services — known as FIS — a formidable presence in the e-commerce market. Worldpay says that it processes about 40 billion transactions a year.FIS itself provides software for processing credit-card transactions and other services for banks, and it has also grown through acquisitions, including a $5 billion deal to buy SunGuard in 2015.“Scale matters in our rapidly changing industry,” Gary Norcross, FIS’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement on Monday.The merger still requires approval of shareholders and may come under regulatory review.Under the terms of the deal, FIS will pay 0.9287 of a share and $11 in cash for every share of Worldpay. As of Friday’s closing prices, that is about $112.12, or 14 percent higher than where Worldpay’s stock closed.Including the assumption of Worldpay’s debt, the deal’s overall value is about $43 billion.The combined company will keep FIS’s name and headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla., the companies said. Mr. Norcross will remain chairman and chief executive, and FIS will hold seven of 12 board seats.Volkswagen started the week promoting a bold plan for its electric-car future. As the week ended, the German carmaker was grappling again with a potentially huge obstacle to achieving that transformation: the lingering stench from its diesel-car past.In a lawsuit filed late Thursday accusing Volkswagen of defrauding American investors, the Securities and Exchange Commission said the carmaker’s former chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, knew about a “massive” emissions fraud in November 2007.If proven, that would be almost at the scheme’s inception, much sooner than Mr. Winterkorn or Volkswagen have previously admitted and nearly seven years earlier than federal prosecutors alleged in a criminal indictment filed against him and several other Volkswagen executives last year.The commission’s timeline severely undercuts Volkswagen’s position that the plot to deceive American regulators about the exhaust levels of the company’s diesel vehicles was entirely the work of lower-level employees and that Mr. Winterkorn and other top managers only learned of it shortly before the Environmental Protection Agency publicly accused Volkswagen of carrying it out in September 2015.The S.E.C. suit could bolster the legal claims of investors seeking billions of dollars in damages from Volkswagen over the scheme. It also extends a scandal that has already drained the company of vast sums of money it could have spent on the new technologies it hopes to build its future on.Mr. Winterkorn has consistently denied wrongdoing, including in testimony to the German Parliament, saying he was unaware of the scheme until shortly before it became public. His lawyer, Steven Molo, declined to comment Friday, referring questions to Volkswagen.“The S.E.C.’s complaint is legally and factually flawed, and Volkswagen will contest it vigorously,” the company said in a statement responding to the commission’s suit.The commission’s suit relies on a novel legal strategy, accusing Volkswagen of concealing the risks it faced and therefore deceiving investors who bought about $13 billion in bonds and other securities from the company in 2014 and 2015. The approach targets Volkswagen’s history of tapping investors in the United States primarily through debt sales instead of stock sales.The S.E.C. filed the suit just days after Volkswagen unveiled its plans for making emissions-free electric vehicles affordable for the masses. On Tuesday, Herbert Diess, the carmaker’s chief executive since last April, said Volkwagen would build 22 million electric cars in the next decade, and sell them for the same price as midrange cars like the Golf.For Volkswagen, which is already under pressure to cut costs, the potential financial consequences of the S.E.C. suit are significant. The maximum penalty would be in the hundreds of millions of dollars, reflecting how much the commission says the company saved by selling debt to American investors at “artificially inflated prices.”The financial fallout could be much more severe in Germany, where the new allegations provide ammunition for shareholders battling the carmaker in court. Investors in Germany say Volkswagen neglected its legal obligation to inform them of the risks it was taking. As a result, the shareholders say they lost billions of euros after the cheating came to light and Volkswagen’s stock plunged in value.The German lawsuits turn on the question of when Mr. Winterkorn and other members of Volkswagen’s management board knew about so-called defeat device software that could recognize when diesel vehicles were being tested for emissions.When the software detected that a car’s emissions were being tested, the pollution controls cranked up. But in normal driving conditions, the software reduced the controls to minimize engine wear. As a result, Volkswagen, Audi and Porsche diesels produced far more harmful nitrogen oxide pollution than legally allowed.If investors can prove that Mr. Winterkorn knew of the scheme in 2007, their damages claims will be much stronger. Fines and legal settlements arising from the diesel scandal have already cost Volkswagen, the world’s No. 1 maker of vehicles last year, $33 billion.“It could have grave consequences for all the matters before the German courts,” said Christian Strenger, a shareholder activist and corporate governance expert who is among those suing Volkswagen in Germany.In its suit, the S.E.C. describes a meeting in November 2007 where the emissions issue was the main topic of discussion. Mr. Winterkorn and other high-ranking managers attended the meeting, which coincided with Volkswagen’s preparations for a major push to regain market share in the United States by advertising “clean diesel.”But engineers were having trouble taming nitrogen oxide emissions to meet American emissions standards. A presentation at the meeting detailed plans to conceal excess emissions of diesel cars in the United States, including the use of the defeat devices at the center of the scheme.Volkswagen said in 2017 that there was no evidence of Mr. Winterkorn having seen the 2007 presentation. The S.E.C. suit, an official document based on information gathered by investigators, contradicts that.“Although at least one meeting participant warned that putting the existing vehicles on the road in the U.S. would damage VW’s reputation if the vehicles’ high emissions were later discovered, those concerns were ignored,” the suit says. “Winterkorn was present and participated in these discussions.”In its suit, the commission seeks to bar Mr. Winterkorn from being an executive director at any publicly listed company in the United States. It is highly unlikely he would join any company boards, though. He faces criminal charges in the United States and would be arrested if he came to the country.He is safe from arrest as long as he remains in Germany, which does not extradite its own citizens. But the German authorities are pursuing their own investigations and are expected to begin filing criminal charges within months. They have said Mr. Winterkorn is a suspect.The S.E.C. suit also seeks to recover what it calls Volkswagen’s “ill-gotten gains.”By making “false and misleading statements to investors and underwriters about vehicle quality, environmental compliance, and VW’s financial standing,” the commission says, Volkswagen positioned itself to reap hundreds of millions of dollars from investors on terms that were more favorable for the company.Volkswagen said in its statement that it had raised money from sophisticated investors who got their principal and interest back, and that the S.E.C. was “piling on to try to extract more from the company.” The company had noted in its most recent annual report that such a suit was possible and that the S.E.C. had requested information related to potential violations of securities laws.It had seemed recently that Volkswagen’s legal troubles in the United States were mostly behind it. The company has paid $23 billion in fines and civil settlements to diesel owners, the federal government, state governments and dealers in the United States.A $14.7 billion settlement that resolved claims by owners arising from the diesel-cheating scandal was one of the largest consumer class-action settlements ever in the United States.Although Volkswagen has generally preferred to settle cases in the United States, its combative response to the S.E.C. suit, which was filed in federal court in San Francisco, suggests it is gearing up for a fight that could drag on and weigh on its finances and image.For one day, the New York Stock Exchange was denim friendly.Levi Strauss & Company, the company that traces its roots to the days of the California Gold Rush, started trading publicly on Thursday for the second time in its 165-year history.Traders in New York were clad in denim pants and jean jackets, as the stock exchange suspended its prohibition on wearing jeans for the day. Levi’s also set up a “tailor shop” outside of the exchange where traders could personalize their denim.The company’s shares, which were priced at $17 each, rose 32 percent in their first day of trading, ending the day at $22.41 and pushing Levi’s valuation above $8.5 billion.“The floor looked awesome,” Charles V. Bergh, the company’s chief executive, said in a phone interview. “The irony is, there’s a sign when you walk onto the floor saying, ‘No jeans allowed.’”Levi’s has been undergoing a turnaround for the better part of the past decade under Mr. Bergh, who joined the company in 2011. The company, based in San Francisco, has yet to return to its peak of the 1990s, but the executive has overseen an increase in sales to $5.6 billion last year, with net profit of $285 million.[Being publicly traded is the latest chapter in the story of the 165-year-old company.]“The job is not done, but this is a big step and acknowledgment of the progress that we’ve made,” Mr. Bergh said. “The vision I had was to be and be seen as the world’s best apparel company — and among the best companies in any industry — in part because that’s what the company was in the ’60s, ’70s and ’80s.”The company was founded by Levi Strauss, who immigrated to the United States from Bavaria and set up shop in San Francisco in 1853 with a wholesale dry goods business. Twenty years later, he and a business partner received a patent for “waist overalls” with metal rivets at points of strain — a garment known today as the blue jean.The company first listed its shares in the 1970s, but was taken private in 1985 through a leveraged buyout led by descendants of Strauss, known as the Haas family. They wanted to take a longer-term view of the business rather than focus on short-term results and fluctuations. Strauss died without children in 1902 and left the company to his nephews. Family members have controlled the business ever since.Mr. Bergh said that Levi’s chose to return to public markets because of the renewed strength of the brand and its growth potential in categories like women’s apparel and international markets like China. Last year, tops accounted for 20 percent of the company’s sales while women’s apparel rose to 29 percent of revenue.He also said that investors had responded positively to the company’s reputation as one that would take a stand on social issues, like its decision in the 1990s to pull financial support from the Boy Scouts of America after the organization refused to admit gay members and leaders. In recent years, Mr. Bergh has attracted attention, some of it critical, for speaking out about gun violence and advocating gun control legislation.“There’s an acknowledgment that today consumers are buying brands that represent a good value, but they also buy into brands and companies that share their values,” he said.Levi’s raised more than $100 million from the offering, which it plans to use for general corporate purposes and possibly for acquisitions, according to its regulatory filings. Much of the offering’s proceeds will go to the Haas family.Members of the Haas family, known for their donations to the University of California, Berkeley, where the business school carries the family name, will hold about 80 percent of the voting shares after the offering.Levi’s showing on Thursday makes it one of the better performing recent I.P.O.s. Since the start of last year, shares of companies listing on American exchanges rose, on average, 14 percent during their first day of trading.The recent debuts of retailers have received a mixed reaction from investors. Shares of Farfetch, which went public last year, jumped 42 percent during their first day of trading. The stocks of Canada Goose and Duluth also performed well, rising 26 percent and 14 percent. Stitch Fix, though, finished essentially flat and J.Jill was down 3 percent.Neil and Kathinka McKeown’s home in Calaveras County, Calif., burned down in a 2015 wildfire that regulators believe started when a power line made contact with a tree. Late last year, they thought they were finally close to rebuilding after reaching a seven-figure settlement with Pacific Gas & Electric, whose line was involved.But PG&E never sent the money, and because the company filed for bankruptcy protection in January, the couple will have to wait even longer. The McKeowns cannot expect payments until PG&E emerges from bankruptcy, something that may not happen for at least two years, according to legal experts. “It’s been devastating,” said Mr. McKeown, a consultant who works on renewable energy systems. “It’s like the fire happened all over again. We were looking forward to resolving everything.”And while they wait, the bankruptcy may at times put the McKeowns and other wildfire victims in conflict with PG&E and other parties with claims against the company.The McKeowns had insurance, but the proceeds were used to pay off the mortgage on their destroyed home. They had counted on the settlement with PG&E to finance a new one. (The couple’s lawyer said the terms barred them from disclosing the exact amount of the payout.) In the meantime, they are living with their two children in a 400-square-foot trailer.Their predicament highlights how corporate bankruptcies can leave some parties at a big disadvantage. Parties owed money by a company before it files for bankruptcy, like the wildfire victims, will have to wait until the bankruptcy proceedings are complete, and ultimately may get only a portion of what they hope to collect. By contrast, employees of the company, or anyone doing business with it while it is being reorganized, can expect to be paid. That divide became even starker in recent days. PG&E filed a motion last week asking the bankruptcy court in San Francisco to approve the payment of $235 million in employee cash bonuses this year. After a series of deadly wildfires in 2018, the company decided not to pay its bonuses for the year. But PG&E says it wants to pay bonuses this year to ensure that employees remain motivated to achieve its operational and financial goals. Bankruptcy experts say the judge, Dennis Montali, will almost certainly approve bonuses in some form. “In general, courts are extremely deferential to managers who say they need to pay bonuses,” said Jared A. Ellias, a professor at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law.At the end of last year, PG&E had $77 billion in assets and $64 billion in liabilities, including $14 billion in wildfire claims. But the figures on the liability side continue to grow. PG&E has estimated that it faces wildfire claims of at least $30 billion, a sum that reflects the devastating fires of 2017 and 2018. Among them was the Camp Fire, the deadliest in state history, which killed at least 85 people in November. PG&E said last month that its equipment had probably caused the fire, making the utility liable for property damage under state law even if it was not negligent.There is widespread sympathy for the wildfire victims in California. Gov. Gavin Newsom has asked the bankruptcy court to give strong representation to the victims. But even if PG&E offered to make payments to some wildfire victims, other parties with claims might successfully block such a move. Legal scholars struggled to think of any large bankruptcy case in which individuals’ claims were paid before others. “All these fire victim claims are unsecured claims,” said Kenneth Ayotte, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. The wildfire victims have an organized voice in the proceedings through an official committee set up last month. Another committee represents other unsecured creditors, including investors, contractors, union members and wholesale power suppliers. Though the committees have equal standing in the court, the groups may not always want the same thing.The company’s bonus plan has become an early focus of the competing interests. Lawyers for the victims’ committee filed a brief this week urging the court to reject the proposal. “Implementing effective and proven safety measures should be the paramount focus of the company, not seeking discretionary bonus payments triggered by PG&E’s own vague interpretation of protecting public safety,” they argued. But employees contend that the bonuses are not excessive and say they rely on the payments for basic needs. John Mader, an engineer and union official who joined PG&E 21 years ago, said losing the 2018 bonus translated into a 10 percent pay cut for him and other union members. A similar reduction this year, he said, would mean some employees would not be able to pay for items like child care. Another concern is that PG&E might lose employees to other utilities, making it harder for the company to meet crucial goals. “It’s in the interest of the people of California to operate this business,” said Mr. Mader, president of the Engineers and Scientists of California Local 20, which represents 1,200 PG&E employees. “If you’re going to confiscate their pay for performance, which is an industry standard, it’s going to have an effect.”Judge Montali is expected to approve the bonuses in some form, long before other issues are settled. But the judge may balk at the compensation package if he concludes that it is overly generous or its performance targets are too easy to meet. “They can’t be layups,” said Robert K. Rasmussen, a law professor at the University of Southern California. “I am sure he’s going to make sure these things are designed in the right way.”Certain features of the bonus package, known officially as the short-term incentive plan, may get particular scrutiny. The $235 million budgeted for the 2019 bonuses is 81 percent more than the $130 million that the company had sought to pay out for 2018 before withdrawing the proposal. In addition, the company wants to pay out the bonuses each quarter, rather than annually. The change may make it easier to hit performance targets, which include goals related to safety and financial results. And while the company is not paying long-term stock awards this year, it is proposing that half of that compensation be paid out as cash bonuses. Pertinently, the bonuses are shielded from many of the costs of wildfires. PG&E intends for 40 percent of the bonus to be determined by a financial benchmark known as earnings from operations, up from 25 percent last year. The calculation excludes many expenses that are not considered core to the company’s operations, including the claims relating to recent wildfires. Matt Nauman, a PG&E spokesman, declined to say whether the 2019 plan would also exclude the wildfire costs.Lauren Hepler contributed reporting.William E. McGlashan Jr. was sitting on Richard Branson’s private island several years ago when the idea first struck him: He would create a new venture capital fund focused on ethical investing.He had been inspired during a conference on the island also attended by Laurene Powell Jobs, the widow of the Apple founder Steve Jobs, and Jeff Skoll, the first president of eBay. Soon after, he would recruit them and the U2 singer Bono to the Rise Fund on the promise of doing good.Yet on Tuesday, Mr. McGlashan was one of 50 people caught up in a federal investigation into college admissions fraud, a scandal that has ensnared prominent parents who stand accused of paying bribes to give their children an edge.While two Hollywood actresses were the most recognizable figures to face charges, they were outnumbered by business titans who are not household names.Mr. McGlashan is widely seen as one of Silicon Valley’s most powerful investors, a partner at the $103 billion investment firm TPG. The fund he oversaw there invested in prominent brands including Airbnb, Spotify and Uber. He has been placed on leave from TPG and Rise.Also charged were Gordon Caplan, a top mergers and acquisitions attorney who was a co-chairman of the law firm Willkie Farr, and Doug Hodge, the retired chief executive of Pimco, one of the world’s biggest bond fund managers. Mr. Caplan was placed on leave on Wednesday, and Mr. Hodge’s name was stripped from the website of Sway Ventures, an investment firm where he was a venture partner.Mr. Hodge is also listed as a board member for two wealthy private schools in California: Sage Hill School and the Thacher School. Blossom Beatty Pidduck, Thacher’s head of school, said on Wednesday that Mr. Hodge had been on the board since 2011 and that the board was discussing whether to let him continue serving. Messages left with Sage Hill were not returned Wednesday.The actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin were the boldface names in the charges announced on Tuesday by federal prosecutors in Boston, but such celebrities may still be able to find work after their cases are resolved. That won’t necessarily be the case for the high-powered lawyers and money managers on the list.“Professionals, their stock in trade has to be their integrity,” said Laurie Levenson, a former federal prosecutor and a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. “Celebrities have a different stock in trade.”Mr. Caplan, who worked on complex deals for Hudson’s Bay including the sale of Lord & Taylor’s former flagship store on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, would lose his law license in New York if convicted of a felony. Mr. McGlashan, whose reputation drew star power to a fund with the idea of positive social change, may have a hard time raising money if he has a felony conviction on his record. And Mr. Hodge, who told Harvard Business Review last year that he was surprised “how quickly opportunity came my way” after his retirement, could see those chances to do something new dry up.After the charges were announced, the firms quickly sought to distance themselves from the accused. TPG’s announcement noted that the charges against Mr. McGlashan were for “personal misconduct,” and Willkie Farr pointed out that the case against Mr. Caplan was “a personal matter and does not involve Willkie or any of its clients.” Willkie also removed Mr. Caplan’s biography from the firm’s website.A lawyer for Mr. Caplan and a spokesman for Mr. McGlashan declined to comment on Wednesday. Mr. Hodge could not be reached for comment.Neither TPG nor Willkie is likely to be undone by the charges against a leadership figure, but both firms may face uncomfortable questions from clients and investors. TPG, for example, has long cultivated an image as a progressive and trustworthy institution. It moved quickly to install Jim Coulter, its chief executive and a co-founder, as acting chief of the Rise Fund.Mr. McGlashan is listed as one of several “key men” in agreements with investors who committed money to TPG, but his suspension — or potential permanent exit — would not unwind those agreements unless several more of TPG’s top managers departed, according to a person familiar with the firm’s operations, who was not authorized to speak publicly. Investors in the fund have committed money for several years, and the case is unlikely to have a direct financial impact on the fund.On Wednesday, Mr. McGlashan stepped down from the board of STX Entertainment, the film studio that he helped found with the producer Robert Simonds. The news was shared in an internal memo sent to STX employees and reviewed by The New York Times. STX is funded in large part by TPG, which said in the memo that it remained committed to the studio, whose movies include the teen comedy “The Edge of Seventeen.”Rebecca Roiphe, a former prosecutor and a professor at New York Law School who specializes in legal ethics, said she expected few clients would leave Willkie Farr because of the charges against Mr. Caplan, who in April was named a “deal maker of the year” by The American Lawyer, a trade magazine. But she said the case could give potential clients a reason to ask questions about the firm’s culture and its process for selecting lawyers to manage the firm.“They made the choice to have this person represent the firm,” Ms. Roiphe said.Charging documents filed by federal prosecutors describe how parents were willing to pay William Singer, the founder of the Edge College & Career Network, a college preparatory business, up to $75,000 to arrange for cheating on standardized tests or hundreds of thousands of dollars to bribe college coaches to recruit a student. Mr. Singer, who has pleaded guilty to charges including racketeering conspiracy and obstruction of justice, cooperated with the investigation.According to prosecutors, Mr. Singer advised Mr. McGlashan to claim that his son had learning disabilities, which would allow the student more time to complete an entrance exam, and Mr. McGlashan gave $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s charity. The men also discussed creating a fake football recruiting profile for his son.Mr. Hodge paid more than half a million dollars to get two of his children into the University of Southern California, according to prosecutors, who also said his discussions with Mr. Singer had been captured on secret recordings.Mr. Caplan was also caught on tape, the authorities said. In discussing the scheme to improve his daughter’s college entrance exam score in return for $75,000, prosecutors said, Mr. Caplan asked Mr. Singer a number of times if anyone has gotten “caught” or “ever gotten into an issue with this.”At one point, prosecutors said, he told Mr. Singer: “Keep in mind I am a lawyer. So I am sort of rule-oriented.”How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Tara Siegel Bernard, a personal finance reporter, discussed the tech she’s using.What are your most important tech tools for tracking budgets?This may sound strange coming from a personal finance reporter, but I’m not a big fan of traditional budgets — I don’t think they work. I try to keep my own spending in check by taking the reverse approach. Instead of tracking every dollar, I focus on what we need to save for: retirement, college or some other goal. After you’ve automated your savings goals and created a bit of a cushion for emergencies, you’re freer to spend without thinking too hard or feeling too guilty. It’s an imperfect system, but it’s better than a failed budget. That method won’t necessarily work in all situations, especially if you need to tackle debt or establish a stricter spending plan in retirement. And everyone can benefit from tracking personal spending, even if you do it only for a few months or check in only every quarter.Mint has been around for a while, but it is still a solid way to take stock of where all of your money is going and whether your net worth is moving in the right direction. It also allows you to create a budget, and alerts you when you’ve spent too much. I use it infrequently, and there’s usually at least one kink I need to work out whenever I log in; most recently, it counted all of my retirement accounts twice, which was kind of cruel. Personal Capital, an investment advisory service, also has a robust free tool that tracks your spending, cash flow and retirement goals all in one place with minimal effort.For people who want a more proactive approach to spending and whittling down debt, there’s You Need a Budget. I’ve come across many people in my reporting who have attested that it’s life-changing.Which basic tools would you recommend for people to increase their savings and investments?It’s not so much a tool but a technology: automation. After you’ve settled on a low-cost investment provider such as Vanguard, automation is the surest way to set yourself up for success. Automate as much as you can — your Roth I.R.A. contributions, your kids’ 529 college savings accounts. If you have an employer-provided retirement plan like a 401(k), see if it will allow you to automatically increase the percentage you’re saving each year. If not, set a date in your electronic calendar to remind you to revisit all of those amounts annually.I also like the little revolution that the roboadvisers have started. They lean heavily on technology to help invest and manage your money, though more of them are increasingly integrating human advisers. Betterment and Wealthfront have free tools that will let you play with various goals and savings amounts to see how long it will take you to save what you need. What money apps do you recommend for the younger set?I have a 2-year-old daughter and a 6-year-old son, who recently started asking me questions about how credit cards work and how much money we earn. Another day, we were in a bookstore and he wanted me to buy four new Dog Man and Captain Underpants books. All of this happened within a couple of weeks, so I took that as a cue. There are a ton of money apps for children and teenagers, but I was hoping to find something to help him focus on developing patience and delaying gratification. Today, bags of groceries magically appear on our doorstep without any visible transaction. If we need something, we can just press a button — as adults, we’re a month removed from any consequences, and children are often completely unaware that there was any exchange at all. Stuff just arrives when you want it.To help acquaint my son with the reality of how all of this works, I decided to pay him an allowance of $5 a week. Instead of putting it in physical “save, spend and give” jars, he’s tracking the same categories on an iPad. I scanned a few different apps, but the simplicity of PiggyBot seemed well suited for younger children. He immediately set a goal to buy two of those books — but he’s going to have to wait nine weeks to get them. (I also told him that we could just go to the library.)Outside your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with? I live a pretty low-tech life. We listen to music through Sonos and watch television through a four-year-old Roku device, though we haven’t entirely cut the cord because my husband is a soccer fan. I did recently learn that we can hand in our cable box and pay a little less, while keeping access to cable channels through Roku, though you lose the ability to record.There are also several apps that I use daily or weekly. I always have roughly five dozen tabs open on my computer screen, as well as stories I come across on Twitter that I want to read later. To minimize the clutter, I save everything to the Pocket app, which I’ll read on my commute. I also keep a to-do list on the iPhone “reminders” app.I also love Ink and Postagram for turning my children’s photos into cards for relatives, all from my aging iPhone 6s, which has started to shut down in the cold. I have a long wish list of apps, but I really want more sophisticated tools that would help us become smarter consumers. I want to enter a product name into an app so it can assure me that we’re not feeding our children weed killer in their oatmeal.Lots of web writers talk about the so-called FIRE, which stands for “financial independence, retire early.” People are retiring as early as their 30s. What do you think about this movement?We can all learn something from folks like Mr. Money Mustache, who is credited with popularizing the idea of hyper-frugal, anti-consumerist living and saving a significant chunk of your salary so you can either retire early or pursue more rewarding work. But the movement started with a lot of technology workers — and it’s a lot easier to save half your salary when you’re a well-paid software engineer with health insurance and no debt. Sure, these folks had to exercise discipline and restraint. But they had the luxury of exercising that discipline; there are so many people living on much less and struggling to pay for health insurance, rent, child care and student loans or to keep full-time jobs with chronic conditions. It also raises a lot of questions: How do they pay for health care? Will the money really last as long as they need it? A lot of research shows a portfolio may last around 30 years if you withdraw 4 percent of the initial retirement portfolio balance, and then adjust that dollar amount for inflation annually. So when you start looking at longer time horizons — or a 50-year or 60-year retirement — it’s increasingly possible to run out of money if you don’t make adjustments.  But it’s easy to see why so many people find the movement intriguing and why it has become such a popular story line. You can’t help but wonder what it took to achieve financial security so early, so you click and hope to learn something. Good Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Prosecutors and regulators circle BoeingIn the wake of two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane that shared similarities, Boeing finds itself with prosecutors and regulators inspecting its development processes and safety assessments.• A grand jury in Washington, D.C., issued a subpoena dated March 11 — the day after the Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents from at least one person involved in the development of the 737 Max jets, the WSJ reports.• The Transportation Department inspector general’s office was also reportedly examining the plane’s design certification before the second deadly crash.• An investigation by The Seattle Times found that the F.A.A. delegated wide responsibility for the 737 Max safety assessment to Boeing itself. The resulting analysis included “crucial flaws,” according to the investigation.• And Bloomberg reports that as early as seven years ago, F.A.A. employees warned that Boeing “had too much sway over safety approvals of new aircraft.”Boeing said in a statement on Sunday that “aircraft certification processes are well established and have consistently produced safe aircraft designs.” It added that the “737 Max certification program followed the F.A.A.’s standard certification process.”Lyft thinks it’s worth up to $23 billionThe ride-hailing company will start the road show for its I.P.O. today in New York City. It won’t be short on ambition: Lyft hopes to achieve a valuation of as much as $23 billion.In its updated prospectus, Lyft said that it hopes to raise nearly $2.4 billion from its I.P.O. That figure is close to the $2.16 billion in revenue that it generated last year.At the high end of its proposed stock price, $68, the company would be valued at $23 billion. That would make the stakes held by each of the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, worth hundreds of millions of dollars apiece. The company is expected to price its offering on March 28, and would then trade on the Nasdaq the next day.Lyft is poised to become one of the biggest market debuts by a tech company since the Alibaba Group’s I.P.O. in 2014. (Until Uber goes public later this year, at least.)But the I.P.O. is not without controversy. It’s facing backlash from investors who aren’t happy about a dual-class stock structure. Paul Singer, the head of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, is one of them, writing in an FT op-ed:“Those with the insight and daring to found a business deserve our respect. But once they sell the vast majority of the company to the public, they should not be allowed to run it forever without any shareholder input. Public ownership must mean public accountability.”Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank take their merger effort publicThe two German lenders announced yesterday that they will formally begin merger talks. Now they must convince critics that combining is a good thing.Deutsche Bank said it was reviewing “strategic options” for shoring up its profitability and growth. Christian Sewing, the firm’s C.E.O., told employees, “I have consistently stressed that consolidation in the German and European banking sector is an important topic for us.”The combined bank would be one of Europe’s biggest, with $2 trillion in assets and about one-fifth of all private customers in Germany.Going public signals that the deal has political backing. Germany’s finance minister has argued that the country needs a strong national champion to compete against foreign banks. (Here is the FT’s list of the key decision-makers for any deal.)But opposition to a merger is strong. German unions have criticized the plan, fearing tens of thousands of job cuts. And Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg Opinion warns that it wouldn’t fix the bigger problems in the German banking system.It’s hard work making the world shun HuaweiThe Trump administration’s campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei equipment in their 5G wireless networks has faltered, Julian E. Barnes and Adam Satariano of the NYT write.American officials have been pressuring and threatening other nations to shun Huawei. The push is rooted in U.S. concerns that Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat, and could help Beijing spy on other nations.But it’s not really working. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates have all signaled that they are unlikely to follow America’s lead.The U.S. campaign has been criticized for a lack of evidence. American intelligence briefings have reportedly failed to clearly show how the Chinese government has used Huawei to steal information. (Read what five experts and two senators have to say about whether it is a threat.) Some European and Asian officials also believe that President Trump may not fully support the fight.American officials want to find other ways to curb Huawei’s rise, Mr. Barnes and Mr. Satariano write, “including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.”More: Huawei has built its own operating system for smartphones and computers, to be used if the company can no longer use software developed by Google and Microsoft.Wall Street’s first #MeToo case could go to trialThe financial sector hasn’t felt the impact of #MeToo as much as other industries. But as David Gelles of the NYT reports, a lawsuit against the asset manager TCW could change that.• Sara Tirschwell, who created a distressed-debt fund at TCW but was fired in 2017, has sued the firm; her former boss, Jess Ravich; and the C.E.O., David Lippman. She claimed that her dismissal was retaliation against her for reporting a sexual harassment claim against Mr. Ravich, gender discrimination and a breach of contract.• Ms. Tirschwell alleges that Mr. Ravich pressured her into sex several times during her tenure with the firm. The first encounter made her feel, according to her lawsuit, “as if rejection would mean the end of Ravich’s crucial support.”• TCW, Mr. Ravich and Mr. Lippman denied the allegations. “I was Sara’s biggest supporter at TCW and had no role in the decision to fire her,” Mr. Ravich said.• So far, there’s been no talk of a settlement. Mr. Gelles writes, “Days in court have been rare for the movement — and rarer still for Wall Street, where grievances are typically dealt with in private, and by wire transfer, when they are dealt with at all.”S&P 500 chiefs got big raises last yearDespite delivering disappointing returns to investors, many C.E.O.s saw their compensation climb last year, according to the WSJ.• “Median compensation for 132 chief executives of S&P 500 companies reached $12.4 million in 2018, up from $11.7 million for the same group in 2017,” the WSJ calculates.• “Most of these C.E.O.s received substantial raises — the median was 6.4 percent — even though the December stock-market swoon meant most of the companies finished out the year posting sluggish shareholder returns.”• “Markets did pretty well, companies did well, and the economy held up,” Robin Ferracone, an executive-pay consultant, told the WSJ.• But she also said that boards may have been thinking forward to an economic slowdown, adding, “They know they’re going to have to bring it down when the bloom’s off the rose.”Big Tech’s extremism problemThe shooting at a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, was designed to go viral on the internet. What can we do about it?“The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook,” Kevin Roose of the NYT writes. “The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them.”“Online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs,” Mr. Roose adds. “People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.”But telling terrorists from trolls isn’t easy for tech companies, Christopher Mims of the WSJ argues. Knowing which online extremists will erupt with an act of violence can be virtually impossible, and their broadcasts of sudden acts of violence can be hard to automatically block.More needs to be done. “We need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore,” Mr. Roose writes. “It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better.”Revolving doorPG&E is reportedly close to naming Bill Johnson, the outgoing head of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as its next C.E.O.Google named Scott Beaumont, the head of its greater China and Korea operations, as the chief of its Asia-Pacific team.Stuart Benson resigned as the C.F.O. of MoviePass.Princeville Capital, a venture capital firm that invests in climate technology, has recruited Leonardo DiCaprio as an adviser.The speed readDeals• Fidelity National Information Services agreed to buy an international payments processor, Worldpay, for $34 billion. (The companies)• Caesars Entertainment and Eldorado Resorts are reportedly in early merger talks. (Reuters)• Private equity firms like KKR and CVC Capital Partners are reportedly interested in buying Bayer’s animal-health division. (Bloomberg)• PagerDuty, a popular start-up that alerts I.T. workers to tech problems that need fixing, publicly filed for an I.P.O. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Investors eagerly await the Treasury Department’s rules for investing in tax-advantaged opportunity zones. (NYT)• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro over a monologue questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the U.S. — and President Trump was unhappy about the move. (NYT)• Cindy Yang, the former owner of a massage parlor busted in a prostitution ring, has come under scrutiny for political activities, including donations to the president’s re-election campaign. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to put her Brexit deal up for a third parliamentary vote this week, but that is likely contingent on gaining the backing of the Democratic Unionist Party. (FT)• Meanwhile, the Labour Party appears set to support a plan that would seek a public vote on Mrs. May’s deal if it is approved by lawmakers. (Reuters)Trade• The U.S. and China are pushing for a meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, but negotiators are still grappling over the details. (NYT)• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska has sued the U.S. Treasury Department over sanctions placed on him last year. (CNBC)• President Xi Jinping of China starts a series of state visits to Europe this week in a bid to bolster trade with the continent. (Bloomberg)Tech• Marc Andreessen, a Facebook board member, reportedly met with the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie in 2016. If true, it would suggest he understood the extent of the company’s harvesting of Facebook data. He denies the claim. (Observer, Business Insider)• In related news, the academic behind Cambridge Analytica’s data mining has sued Facebook for defamation. (NYT)• Apple is making a billion-dollar bet to take on Netflix. Will it work? (NYT)• Tech investors are now including #MeToo clauses in their start-up deals. (FT)• Breaking up tech giants has suddenly become a populist concept — but not in San Francisco. (NYT, Bloomberg)Best of the rest• In the wake of the admissions scandal, colleges are rethinking athletic special admissions. (WSJ)• The Fed is likely to say later this week that it has little appetite for more interest rate rises this year. (WSJ)• Why do successful joint ventures turn sour? It’s often because the success breeds a desire for control that the venture sought to avoid. (Economist)• The European Central Bank is unhappy about the E.U.’s plans for increasing supervision of clearing houses. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.As tattooed rockers, tech bros and Instagram influencers pile into the tweedy world of watch collecting, prices for sought-after classics from brands like Rolex, Omega and Patek Philippe are shooting up. In some cases, they have doubled in just a couple of years.These next-generation collectors see old timepieces not just as a subtly stylish way to dress up a T-shirt and jeans, but also as a hot new asset in their investment portfolios. In a market where stocks, bonds and real estate seem at an unsteady peak, do vintage watches present a Bitcoin-in-2017-like growth opportunity? Or are they in a Bitcoin-in-2017-like bubble? Time — elegantly monitored — will tell. Even though his investment in watches has doubled in value in just 18 months, Peter Goodwin, a private investor in Charlottesville, Va., who also collects watches, said he is concerned about frothiness in the vintage market.“It’s much like momentum investing in stocks,” he said. “People see the rise in Facebook shares, they see Mark Zuckerberg, and they want to ride it up. It is the same with the trendy watches we read about in the auctions — the Paul Newman Rolex, the Omega Speedmasters, some Submariners. You see them rising and you want to jump on.”“The question,” Mr. Goodwin said, “is when does it stop?”That’s a risk that newcomer watch geeks like Shahien Hendizadeh, a recent business school graduate in Los Angeles, are willing to take.“Buying a good vintage Rolex is just like purchasing stock in a company like Nestlé or Google,” Mr. Hendizadeh, 25, said. “It is the quintessential blue chip.”After taking a face-plant on a long-shot $2,000 investment in American Apparel stock, just months before the company declared bankruptcy, he bought a 1982 Rolex Submariner for $13,000. It has appreciated perhaps $10,000 in two years, he said.And in the event of an economic downturn, fine watches may turn out to represent a safe-haven asset, like metals or gems, for investors looking to diversify their portfolios. Or they may just be another of-the-moment asset that 1 percenters, flush with cash, have inflated to unsustainable proportions. ⊕Watch collectors hide in plain sight. John Mayer’s watch collection is nearly as famous as his guitar work. His bank vault contains a vast array of collectibles, including sapphire-encrusted gold Rolexes and Luftwaffe watches from World War II, that he has said is valued in the “tens of millions.”Silicon Valley heavyweights like Kevin Rose, the Digg founder, and Matt Jacobson, Facebook’s employee No. 8, have museum-worthy Rolexes and Patek Philippes, helping to establish a head-turning timepiece as a tech-world style flourish to rival the hoodie.Ellen DeGeneres wore a holy-grail Paul Newman-model Rolex Daytona from the 1960s, now worth perhaps $250,000, while bantering with Jerry Seinfeld in an episode of “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” last year. (Adam Levine and Ed Sheeran have been spotted wearing Paul Newmans as well. One also made a cameo on the wrist of Pierre Png’s character in “Crazy Rich Asians.”)In professional sports, high-end timepieces have long seemed as indispensable as a shoe contract for stars with seven- and eight-figure incomes. Top athletes including Rafael Nadal, Dwyane Wade and LeBron James have served as celebrity ambassadors for brands like Richard Mille, Hublot and Audemars Piguet. Star players who have been traded have been known to trade a Rolex to a player on their new team to secure their old jersey number. And in recent years, several have morphed into certifiable watch snobs. Howie Kendrick of the Washington Nationals, for example, counts understated heirlooms, like a 1959 LeCoultre Deep Sea Alarm and a 1960s Breitling Superocean, as key elements of his off-field uniform.If you’re still 1 percent-ish but would prefer to dabble, there’s good news. The Watch Fund, run by Dominic Khoo, a shareholder and watch specialist with the auction company Antiquorum, offers people a chance to invest in rare and limited-edition watches at prices that can be 50 percent or more below retail. Those who have bought in have seen at least double-digit returns since the fund’s inception six years ago, Mr. Khoo said.Star power and funds like Mr. Khoo’s add credence to the idea that fine watches are a soybean or a copper, another investable commodity. But does that make them a good investment?⊛What even makes a watch valuable? Consider the bezel insert from a 1957 Rolex Submariner. A bezel insert is the featherweight aluminum disk with numbers on it that surrounds the dial of a diver’s watch.On Submariners made in the third quarter of 1957, the bezel insert was made with an unusual red triangle at 12 o’clock and slightly different typography on the numerals. Because it is rare, that insert is so sought after by collectors that it can fetch more than $30,000 these days, said Eric Wind, a dealer of fine vintage watches in Florida, up from maybe $10,000 just a few years ago.None of this necessarily makes sense. It’s not like a vintage watch is better than a new one. In fact, it’s worse in almost every way.A new Rolex Submariner, for example, is a modern update of a decades-old classic that seems to be every budding watch geek’s first serious timepiece. The new Sub is a marvel of mechanical engineering, with a high-tech ceramic bezel that is virtually guaranteed not to fade, a solid-steel bracelet as rugged as a tank tread, and a crystal made of sapphire that is all but scratch-proof. It’s a watch that feels indestructible enough for a pleasure dive in the Mariana Trench.No one would ever say that about its predecessor, those midcentury Submariners made famous by Sean Connery’s James Bond, which are shooting up in value despite the fact that they feature an acrylic (that is, plastic) crystal prone to scratches and cracks, a hollow-steel bracelet that eventually might stretch like an accordion, and a painted dial that could fade from the original black to an espresso brown (known to collectors as a “tropical” dial).Which is, naturally, why old watches are considered cool: They have patina, provenance, soul. And for a generation of men (and yes, vintage watches seem to be an obsession largely for men, with apologies to Ellen) who value the analog-chic of antique mechanical watches, just like vinyl records and selvage jeans, that is key.“Vintage watches should show off their age,” said Nelson Murray, a 31-year-old photographer and budding collector in San Francisco. Vintage sport watches, like his Rolex GMT-Master, a classic pilot’s watch from 1980, “evoke a sense of adventure and a kind of dare to add more dings and scratches to them as evidence of a life lived.”⊚Prices for some Rolex GMT-Master models — in the proper condition, with original parts — have spiked to perhaps $16,000, up from $8,000 just two or three years ago, said Paul Altieri of Bob’s Watches, a prominent retailer in Newport Beach, Calif. (It routinely shows off sumptuous wrist shots of old classics for its Instagram followers.)A few years ago, Matt Hranek, a watch-loving photographer who recently founded a men’s style magazine called Wm Brown, flipped a 1960s Omega Speedmaster (the same model worn by the astronaut Ed White on the first American spacewalk) for five times what he paid for it, he said. That score helped him persuade his wife that a portfolio of vintage watches could serve as an alternate 401(k) for the family.“I convinced her — I think — that it was much more practical to invest regularly in watches that I know about rather than the stock market that I know absolutely nothing about,” Mr. Hranek, 51, said.Benjamin Clymer, the founder of the watch site Hodinkee, which has evolved from a one-man watch blog to a market-moving editorial and e-commerce site selling new and vintage watches, has been practicing a form of horological arbitrage with his collection for years.In 2012, for example, he bought a Patek Philippe Nautilus, a triumph of 1970s mod design that conjures images of Concorde flights and fondue parties, for $18,000. That watch is worth at least $75,000 today, Mr. Clymer, 36, said. That’s not his only home run as a watch investor.“I have a distinct memory of a friend who is now one of the great vintage dealers in the world calling me crazy for spending $30,000 for an early 1950s Omega Speedmaster,” he said. “The same watch today would be well north of $100,000.”⊝With wrist shots flourishing on Instagram and watch sites like Hodinkee, Worn & Wound and Monochrome spreading arcane watch knowledge to the masses, collector demand is spreading beyond behemoth brands like Rolex and Omega to lesser-known makers like Universal Genève. One particularly coveted version of that venerable Swiss maker’s Compax chronograph famously graced the wrist of Nina Rindt, the fashionable wife of the 1970s Formula One racer Jochen Rindt. It began trading as high as $45,000 recently, up from maybe $2,800 in 2011, although the market has cooled of late, Mr. Wind said; the same model might trade for $20,000 to $30,000, he added. But no watch has exploded in value like the Paul Newman Daytona. It is an auto racer’s chronograph that once was considered something of an afterthought in the watch world. Joanne Woodward accidentally made it iconic when she bought one for Mr. Newman, her gear-head husband, in the late 1960s for about $250.Whether she noticed it or not, the specific model she selected for Mr. Newman, who could often be found circling the track when he was not making movies, was rare, featuring distinctive Art Deco-inflected numerals on its three sub-dials denoting seconds, minutes and hours. This only appeared on perhaps one in 20 Daytonas from the late 1960s and early 1970s.Over the years, Mr. Newman’s stature as a style icon grew, and so did the mythology — and value — of the Rolex he flashed on magazine covers. In a 2014 post, Hodinkee scoured old auction catalogs featuring Paul Newman sales and found estimates as low as $9,257 in 1992, and as low (yes) as $66,000 in 2008.Those were the days. After Paul Newman’s own Paul Newman attracted worldwide headlines by selling at auction for $17.8 million after a mere 12 minutes of bidding in 2017, every Paul Newman suddenly seems to be trading like a Picasso. A coveted version known as an Oyster Mk 1 “panda” went for more than $750,000 at a Phillips auction in Geneva this past spring, a figure that shocked Mr. Clymer, who once owned that very watch. “The Oysters are something really special, and go well beyond ticking the box for a rich guy to prove he’s cool,” Mr. Clymer said. “I bought this watch in the twos, sold it in the threes, and I thought I was the smartest man in the room. How could a steel Daytona break $400,000?”⊜Not every old watch has value. Anyone who scoops up a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s at a flea market is likely to end up with a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s. Vintage watch collecting can prove a minefield for newbie collectors. Even with blue-chip models, seemingly imperceptible differences can add or detract thousands of dollars in value. A Rolex Submariner from the 1960s with an original bezel insert featuring a so-called long 5 is worth thousands more than one with a replacement insert with a shorter, more contemporary 5. Buyers need to figure out if a watch has been polished over the years — actually considered a bad thing, since polishing can wear down the crisp edges of its case, Mr. Wind said. And they need to watch out for unscrupulous dealers peddling so-called Frankenwatches, which contain non-original parts that can torpedo the value. Besides, watch collecting can be similar to art collecting in that dealers tend to reserve the most coveted pieces for insiders and heavyweight collectors, rarely making them available to the general public. And then there are the fickle market tastes that any sort of collector must try to anticipate. Right now, the arrow is pointing up on best-of-breed sport watches with steel bracelets, like the Nautilus, the Submariner and GMT, the early Speedmasters, the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak and certain vintage Tudors and Heuers, Mr. Clymer said. There’s no telling how the demand for five- and six-figure timepieces will hold up should, say, a credit implosion in China, or a splintering of the eurozone, produce a sequel to the 2008 financial crisis, or should Democratic Socialists sweep to power in Washington on promises of a 70 percent tax rate on the target demographic for museum-worthy watches. Already, some sure things, like certain Daytonas, are looking like slightly less than a sure thing. “The market for Daytona just got a little silly for awhile,” Mr. Clymer said. “We saw references worth $20,000, $25,000 in 2011 to 2015 all of a sudden worth $50,000, then all of a sudden worth $80,000. And now those same references are worth $65,000. That’s still significantly higher than they were, but they’ve come down from the stratosphere.”During the bear market of 2008 to 2009, too, prices for some high-flying vintage models, including Paul Newmans, dipped by 30 to 40 percent, said Matthew Bain, a dealer of fine watches in Miami Beach. But, like stocks, they bounced back to new highs. The rebound may seem intoxicating. But people who think of their watch collection as an alternative to an E-Trade account may be in for a rude surprise when they discover that watches often come with sizable dealer fees, not to mention substantial outlays for insurance, secure storage and other hidden costs, Mr. Khoo said. “Investors are not collectors, and collectors are not investors,” Mr. Khoo said. His Watch Fund has a database of “more than 9,000 watch collectors worldwide,” he said, and “I have never met someone who bought hundreds of watches that he liked, and sold 100 percent of them for a net absolute gain.”In other words, newcomers to the watch world may want to heed the warning attached to brokerage advertisements on television: Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Or, they may just want to buy whatever looks cool and leave it at that. Timothy J. Sloan, the embattled chief executive of Wells Fargo, abruptly stepped down on Thursday as one of the country’s largest banks struggles to recover from a series of self-inflicted scandals.Mr. Sloan took over the top job in 2016 with a mandate to clean up the bank after his predecessor was forced to resign. Once regarded as among the nation’s best-run financial institutions, Wells Fargo admitted in 2016 that it had for years opened what may have been millions of fictitious accounts in customers’ names, improperly charged them fees and sold them unwanted products.But Mr. Sloan, who has been at the company for 31 years, could do little to stem renewed criticism about the bank’s culture and sales practices. In fact, he became a lightning rod for criticism, including from members of Congress who called for his resignation.“I could not keep myself in a position where I was becoming a distraction,” he said on a conference call with analysts.In announcing Mr. Sloan’s departure, the bank said it would look to an external candidate — an acknowledgment that promoting from within had failed to achieve the necessary reforms. Wells Fargo said Mr. Sloan, 58, would be replaced by the bank’s general counsel, C. Allen Parker, on an interim basis as it searches for a permanent chief.Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts and a presidential hopeful, welcomed the news of Mr. Sloan’s departure. “About damn time,” she wrote on Twitter. She added, “He enabled Wells Fargo’s massive fake accounts scam, got rich off it, & then helped cover it up.”Mr. Sloan appeared before a congressional committee this month and defended his work repairing the bank’s practices and culture. Lawmakers from both parties attacked his record, citing a report by The New York Times that described how many Wells Fargo employees felt they remained under intense pressure to reach the types of internal sales targets that bank executives had insisted were no longer in force.For example, Representative Lee Zeldin, Republican of New York, questioned Mr. Sloan about a letter sent to customers of a financial adviser who left the company, but the bank told her clients that she was teaming up with another employee to handle their accounts.After Mr. Sloan’s testimony, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency — Wells Fargo’s primary federal regulator — took the unusual step of publicly criticizing the bank. The office, which has criticized Wells Fargo for forcing hundreds of thousands of customers to carry unnecessary car insurance, said it was unhappy with the bank’s “inability to execute effective corporate governance and a successful risk-management program.”Wells Fargo had other federal problems. It had been barred from expanding last year by the Federal Reserve, and less than a week ago Ms. Warren and Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, urged the Fed to keep those restrictions in place until Mr. Sloan was replaced as chief executive.“Recent reports provide more evidence that Wells Fargo is fundamentally broken, with a record of misconduct that has lasted for years,” they said in a letter. “There is no evidence whatsoever that Mr. Sloan will fix these problems.”Last week, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, acknowledged that Wells Fargo still had “a lot of work to do” improving its internal controls.“What happened at Wells Fargo really was a remarkably widespread series of breakdowns,” he said.The board’s formal discussions about Mr. Sloan’s departure began last week, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions. The board quickly settled on Mr. Parker as the best temporary chief, in part because directors regarded him as having a good relationship with regulators.The board hopes to hire a new chief executive within three months, although the process could drag on considerably longer, the person said.For decades, Wells Fargo was the envy of the banking industry: a financial institution that sold lots of products to customers while dodging the scandals and the losses that hit other banks during the financial crisis. The bank — known for its stagecoach logo, recalling its gold-rush roots in San Francisco — prided itself on having a strong, healthy corporate culture.That image was shattered by scandals over fake customer accounts, unwanted products and unwarranted fees. Still, Wells Fargo looked inside for a solution by naming Mr. Sloan, a three-decade veteran of the bank, to replace John G. Stumpf as chief executive.Now the board is taking a new approach, searching for a leader from outside, suggesting that the bank’s corporate culture was irreparably tainted.“The board has concluded that seeking someone from the outside is the most effective way to complete the transformation at Wells Fargo,” Betsy Duke, the chairwoman of the firm’s board, said in a statement.She said on the conference call that a board committee seeking his replacement would meet for the first time on Friday.Mr. Sloan was paid more than $150 million by Wells Fargo over the last eight years, including salary, stock and bonuses, according to calculations by Equilar, an executive compensation firm. He will receive a standard retirement package and his stock grants — worth about $24 million, according to Equilar — will continue to vest over the next three years, the company said in a regulatory filing.Wells Fargo shares rose by more than 2 percent in after-hours trading. The company’s share price has lagged the broader market this year, rising just 6.5 percent compared with a 12.3 percent increase in the S&P 500.ISTANBUL — Turkey’s banking regulator has announced that it will begin an inquiry into JPMorgan Chase for providing “misleading and manipulative” investment advice that, it said, prompted a run on the Turkish lira last week.The Banking Regulation and Supervision Board issued a statement saying it had received a large number of complaints about a JPMorgan research report to clients on Friday that “caused volatility in the financial markets and loss of reputation and value especially for the banks of our country.”The lira, which has been slipping in value over the last year, slumped more than 5 percent on Friday, dropping in value to 5.7 to the United States dollar from 5.4, while Turkey’s main stock exchange fell 3.45 percent.The board said its investigation would also look into activities of other banks, but it did not name them.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has frequently accused foreign powers of orchestrating the currency crisis, and at a huge campaign rally in Istanbul on Sunday, he accused unnamed actors in the financial sector of trying to provoke a run on the lira.“We all know who you are, we all know what you are all doing,” he said. “You should know that after the elections, we will make you to pay a heavy price. You would not be able to exploit this nation. You would not be able to cheat this nation.”Economists, though, say a loss of confidence in the management of the economy and rule of law in Turkey is behind the weakening of the lira.It is unclear how the inquiry will progress or what penalties could be imposed, but the board said it would undertake “necessary administrative and legal proceedings.” In a related announcement, the Capital Markets Board of Turkey said it was conducting its own investigation into JPMorgan over the same report.JPMorgan analysts warned in the report that the Turkish lira might depreciate soon after local elections scheduled for Sunday. A spokesman for JPMorgan declined to comment.In a sign of its concern at the renewed volatility in financial markets, Turkey’s Central Bank announced on Friday that it would suspend one-week repo auctions — closing the spigot on one source of cash for banks — for a period of time, which analysts called an unusual move.Turkey has experienced severe economic pressures over the last year, and government figures released this month showed that the country had entered a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth. The lira lost 28 percent of its value last year as foreign investment stalled amid soaring private sector debt.Mr. Erdogan, who has assumed increased powers since winning re-election last summer, announced that he would take on greater responsibility for the economy and even decisions at the Central Bank. He appointed Berat Albayrak, his son-in-law, minister of finance and Treasury.Mr. Albayrak said in a television interview on Friday that Turkey had already resolved its most pressing vulnerabilities: inflation and budget discipline. “A healthy environment that would provide security for international markets has settled in Turkey,” he said, promising a period of reform over the rest of Mr. Erdogan’s five-year term. “Our way is open. We are very comfortable.”Even as inflation and unemployment figures have risen sharply, Mr. Erdogan has been undeterred, personally leading two or three rallies around the country a day for his Justice and Development Party. The election campaign has been especially nasty, with mudslinging and lawsuits leveled at candidates as polls show a close race in some of the most important cities, including the capital, Ankara.At the campaign rally on Sunday, Mr. Erdogan vowed to fight outside influences trying to weaken the economy.“Beware, folks, do not take their words for it,” he said. “We will protect our money. Our money is the Turkish lira. We will protect it. We will not rise to the bait. And we will make them pay the price.”President Trump and his top economic adviser criticized the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate increases again on Friday, blaming the central bank for hindering economic growth while denying any suggestion of a looming slowdown.Just one day after the Commerce Department said the economy slowed more sharply at the end of last year than previously reported, Mr. Trump blamed the Fed for “mistakenly” raising rates last year.“Had the Fed not mistakenly raised interest rates, especially since there is very little inflation, and had they not done the ridiculously timed quantitative tightening,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Friday, “the 3.0% GDP, & Stock Market, would have both been much higher & World Markets would be in a better place!”Larry Kudlow, the director of the White House’s National Economic Council, told CNBC on Friday that Mr. Trump would like to see the Fed cut rates by half a percentage point.“This is our view. This is his view. This is my view,” Mr. Kudlow said.Mr. Trump has made no secret of his disdain for the Fed’s recent interest rate increases and its effort to slim down its massive portfolio of government-backed securities. Mr. Trump has blamed the Fed  for slowing economic growth and has criticized his handpicked Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell. After the Fed raised rates in December, Mr. Trump complained to aides that Mr. Powell was going to “turn me into Hoover,” a reference to the man who was president in the early years of the Great Depression.After raising rates for five consecutive quarters, the Fed abruptly changed course this year and said earlier this month that it foresees no additional increases in 2019. Mr. Powell said last week that the Fed would leave interest rates unchanged, as signs of economic weakness in the United States and abroad warrant a more “patient” approach.He also said that the Fed planned to stop winnowing its portfolio of government bonds, which it amassed in the wake of the financial crisis as it tried to prop up the economy. The Fed will end its efforts to shrink that portfolio, known as quantitative tightening, later this year.The Fed, along with many outside economists, sees economic growth slowing in 2019 as the effects of Mr. Trump’s tax cuts fade and as his trade war and weaker growth in Europe and in China contribute to a slowdown. Mr. Powell told reporters earlier this month that, depending on how economic data played out, the Fed’s next move could just as easily be a rate cut as a rate increase.On Thursday, the Commerce Department revised its growth estimates for 2018, saying the economy — as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 — stands at 3.0 percent, down a bit from the initially reported 3.1 percent. That is still enough to allow Mr. Trump to claim to have achieved the first year of 3 percent growth since 2005.Mr. Trump has insisted that economic growth will continue at a rapid clip, but he has also begun to blame the Fed for any slowdown that might occur.In an interview with Fox Business Network last Friday, Mr. Trump said that the economy would have grown by at least 4 percent “if we didn’t have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening.”Mr. Kudlow has struck a slightly less pugilistic tone. In an interview with CNBC, Mr. Kudlow said that the economy “fundamentally” looks “quite healthy,” adding that he and Mr. Trump understand that the Fed operates independently.Mr. Kudlow said Mr. Trump had “redesigned, redeveloped and re-engineered” the economy and suggested the Fed was getting in the way of allowing the president’s efforts to take root.“There’s no emergency, just a point of view,” Mr. Kudlow said. “We don’t want to threaten this great recovery.”While Mr. Powell already seems to be following the trajectory Mr. Trump wants, the president said last week that he plans to nominate Stephen Moore to an open seat on the Fed. Mr. Moore, a former campaign adviser to Mr. Trump and a conservative economist, has been pushing for the Fed to cut interest rates, saying their recent increases went too far. The White House has yet to formally nominate Mr. Moore for the Fed seat.The latest generation of Silicon Valley start-ups is now sprinting to the public markets, raising hopes among large and small investors eager to invest in these high-profile, fast-growing firms. But the class of 2019 is far different from its predecessors. These companies, including gig economy darlings like Uber and Lyft, are generally older and larger, powered for years by billions of dollars of private money that has reshaped the start-up world.The additional maturity of the companies may curb wild swings — both big gains and big losses — for new investors. But it could also mean that the companies’ fastest phases of growth are behind them. As a result, there is an increased risk that in this wave of tech I.P.O.s, an elite group of investors, like sovereign wealth funds and venture capitalists, will grab a larger share of the winnings compared with new investors.“Individual investors are going to get in too late,” said Jason DeSena Trennert, managing partner at Strategas Research Partners, a markets and economic analysis firm. “They’re going to be the last investors in, and that’s the concern.”[Lyft’s shares soared on Friday when it began trading on public markets.]The change reflects a large-scale shift in the way that American entrepreneurs raise money to build their companies. Instead of quickly turning to the public markets and the scrutiny that comes with that, as Amazon and Google did, they are building huge businesses over the course of many years on the back of private money, and with fewer demands for financial disclosures.Uber, the giant ride-hailing company, has raised more than $20 billion over the last decade. Lyft, its smaller rival, which priced its I.P.O. late Thursday at $72 a share and is expected to start trading on the Nasdaq Friday, raised $4.9 billion over seven years.Many start-ups in earlier waves — back to the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, when Amazon was listed on the Nasdaq — went public just a few years after their founding. Some, like Pets.com, had tiny amounts of revenue, and now exist only in Silicon Valley lore. A combination of policy changes and vast new riches in the tech industry has been changing the equation for start-ups for more than a decade. Mutual funds and hedge funds — the typical investors in a start-up’s I.P.O. — began buying stakes in large private companies as a way to build up larger stakes before the new businesses went public. Other big investors joined in, including large sovereign wealth funds and the outsize SoftBank Vision Fund, creating an even hotter market. Venture capital investments into United States-based companies grew to $99.5 billion in 2018, the highest level since 2000, according to CB Insights, a company that tracks start-ups.Those investments have driven valuations of start-ups to unusual heights. There are now at least 333 so-called unicorns, companies valued at $1 billion or more, according to CB Insights. In 2014 there were around 80.Lyft has a private valuation of more than $11 billion. So does Pinterest, another company in the process of going public. That is roughly the market value that public investors put on the retailer Kohl’s and the online trading firm E-Trade Financial. Uber, the largest of the private companies expected to head for the stock market this year, has a private-market valuation of more than $70 billion. In public markets, that’s roughly the same size as corporate giants such as Goldman Sachs and CVS Health. Matt Murphy, a partner at Menlo Ventures, a leading venture capital firm, said the higher valuations and larger investments correlate with bigger opportunities created by smartphones and cloud computing. “The magnitude of the audiences that can be reached and the monetization per user has grown,” he said. “Their growth potential is much higher than was previously anticipated.”Some industry groups and investors who urge fewer regulations say the emphasis on the private markets is an outgrowth of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the federal law passed in 2002 that tightened accounting rules for public companies after the accounting scandals of the early 2000s. Besides raising disclosure requirements and other changes, the law required top executives to attest to the accuracy of corporate financial statements. Some say those higher costs to guarantee compliance can dissuade smaller companies from going public. Private companies, by comparison, can operate with far less disclosure. They are under no obligation to file quarterly earnings updates or audited annual financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nor are they required to broadly distribute updates on business developments to the public. Others say the decline in public offerings began before Sarbanes-Oxley passed. They attribute the change to a wave of federal deregulation, which made it easier to raise money and sell companies privately. Lighter antitrust enforcement set off a boom in mergers and acquisitions, allowing smaller firms to sell to bigger companies instead of going public. At the same time, new laws made it easier for private companies to sell securities to qualified investors around the country, bolstering funding from private equity and venture capital.Whatever the driver, the net result has been a clear downturn in the number of public companies in the United States. The number of listed companies has declined by 52 percent since 1997, to a bit more than 3,600 in 2016, according to a working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research published last year. This long-term shrinkage in publicly available shares is a reason that some analysts expect Uber, Lyft and other prominent start-ups to receive a warm response from the institutional investors who typically buy freshly issued shares, even if the potential upside could be smaller. “There’s an element, I think, of pent-up demand here,” said David Ethridge, who advises on public offerings at the consulting firm PwC. “I think people will have a feeling of, I don’t really want to miss out.”Investors have some reason to be skeptical of paying top dollar for newly minted public companies, however. Over the last two years, the value of companies that completed public offerings actually fell by an average of 8 percent, according to a recent research report from Goldman Sachs analysts. Over the same period, the S&P 500 stock index was up about 12 percent. Good Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The F.A.A. and Boeing face grillings todayAviation regulators will testify before Senate subcommittees today on the crashes of two Boeing 737 Max 8 Jets, while Boeing meets with airline executives to update them on a fix for the software thought to be responsible for the accidents.The F.A.A.’s acting chief will defend the agency’s practice of delegating some plane safety checks to Boeing as “critical” to the success of the certification process. The official, Daniel Elwell, will argue that the process for the Max 8 was “detailed and thorough.”Senators are expected to ask about long-running doubts about the process. The NYT reports that F.A.A. employees and a Transportation Department watchdog worried over the years that the agency had “too close a relationship” with Boeing officials. Lawmakers will also ask why an update to the jet’s anti-stall software is still not ready.Boeing’s response to the crisis is also being questioned, particularly since its C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, has largely remained silent. “Their comments have been very engineering-esque,” Richard Levick, a communications expert, told the NYT. (The company’s public response has become more assertive since hiring the crisis communications firm Sard Verbinnen.)The company will meet today with 200 pilots and airline representatives at the factory where the Max 8 is made. It’s expected to offer some updates on the anti-stall software.More Boeing news: A Max 8 made an emergency landing in Orlando yesterday, though the incident is not thought to be connected to malfunctions that may have led to the two recent crashes.Europe adopts tough new copyright rulesThe European Parliament voted yesterday to pass a new copyright law requiring technology platforms to sign licensing agreements with musicians, authors and news publishers in order to post their work online, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.“The new law is meant to force tech firms to aggressively remove unlicensed copyrighted material from their websites proactively, rather than waiting for complaints to come in before acting,” Mr. Satariano writes.The policy is deeply divisive. Digital rights activists and the tech industry say it could result in censorship. Media organizations say it should protect Europe’s creative industries and ensure companies pay for content they share online.Some digital business models could be affected, because website owners will take on more responsibility for what ends up on their platforms. Sites may find the law too expensive or cumbersome to police: Even Google shuttered its News service, which would require licenses from publishers under the new rules, when a similar initiative was introduced in Spain.Smaller organizations may be hit hardest. These websites contend that giant tech platforms already have the resources to comply with the law, Mr. Satariano writes.Purdue Pharma pays $270 million to settle an opioid lawsuitPurdue Pharma, the drug maker behind OxyContin, said yesterday that it will settle a lawsuit by Oklahoma’s attorney general over its role in the opioid crisis, Jan Hoffman of the NYT reports.Purdue and its owners will pay $270 million, far more than they have paid in previous settlements. The payout helps Purdue avoid a televised trial that was scheduled to begin on May 28.But many more legal battles await. A federal judge in Cleveland alone is overseeing a consolidated collection of 1,600 lawsuits, and 35 other states have sued Purdue as well.The settlement raises questions about a Purdue bankruptcy. The company has contemplated filing for Chapter 11 protection to help contain the cost of defending or settling its legal fights. In bankruptcy, lawsuit claimants would most likely get only a fraction of any court-determined payout.Chapter 11 weighed heavily in the Oklahoma case. The state made a bird-in-the-hand decision, and other plaintiffs may need to make a similar choice. “The concern is that counties and states may settle on the cheap early to avoid getting little to nothing later on,” Elizabeth Chamblee Burch, a law professor at the University of Georgia, told the NYT.Wall Street bonuses widen gender and race pay gapsNew data about Wall Street compensation shows that the financial sector’s huge pay has widened the national disparity between white men and women and people of color, according to a new report from the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal think tank.New York City’s financial sector bonus pool fell last year by 14 percent from the previous year, to $27.5 billion. But that is still three times bigger than the combined annual earnings of all U.S. full-time minimum-wage workers.A majority of financial workers are white men, especially at the top ranks, according to the institute. No less than 68 percent of senior managers at the five largest U.S. investment banks are white men.But they make up just 37 percent of America’s minimum-wage workers, who have full- or part-time jobs that pay $7.25 an hour. “Due to Washington inaction, the federal minimum wage continues to be a poverty wage, while the reckless bonus culture is alive and well on Wall Street,” the report concludes.In Apple vs. Qualcomm, both sides notch winsAs at least 80 patent fights between Apple and Qualcomm trickle through courts around the world, both companies scored victories yesterday, the WSJ reports.Some iPhones now face a U.S. import ban after an International Trade Commission judge issued an initial ruling yesterday finding that Apple had infringed a Qualcomm patent.But Apple scored a bigger victory when another I.T.C. judge ruled that the phone maker had not infringed a Qualcomm patent relating to power efficiency in mobile phones. That overturned a previous court finding.“Qualcomm is hoping a victory, particularly an import ban, could give it greater leverage in technology licensing negotiations,” Bloomberg explains. “Qualcomm says it’s due billions of dollars in unpaid royalties on the iPhone.”“Apple denied infringing any of the patents in the two cases and claimed Qualcomm is trying to shut its only U.S.-based competitor out of the market, something Apple argues will hinder the development of the fifth generation of mobile communications,” Bloomberg adds.Stock buybacks are bigger than everCorporate America set a record for stock repurchases last year, even as lawmakers proposed curtailing the practice.Companies bought back $806.4 billion worth of their own shares, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with $223 billion of that coming in the fourth quarter alone. The previous high was $589.1 billion, set in 2007.The biggest buyer was Apple, which repurchased $101 billion of its stock.The buyback boom was fueled by the Trump tax cuts, with companies preferring to use their savings to repurchase shares and bolster their stock prices, rather than issue dividends or make new investments.And it came despite opposition from Congress, with lawmakers from Senator Bernie Sanders to Senator Marco Rubio arguing in favor of limits on the practice.But a repeat is unlikely this year, as the sugar rush from the tax cuts wears off.Google’s robot reboot is all about softwareIn 2013, Google started an ambitious and flashy effort to create robots under the control of Andy Rubin, who later left the company amid accusations of sexual harassment. Now, the company has overhauled the effort with more modest goals — but subtly advanced technology, Cade Metz of the NYT reports.Google’s first robot push was all about advanced machines, and was built on a series of acquisitions. Some of the companies that Google bought relied on humanoid robots, but the tech giant failed to capitalize on them, and sold off or shut down the companies over time.Now the focus is on making robots smarter by injecting them with machine-learning software. “The company is developing ways for these robots to learn skills on their own, like sorting through a bin of unfamiliar objects or navigating a warehouse filled with unexpected obstacles,” Mr. Metz writes.“Google is tight-lipped about how it hopes to deploy the technologies it is working on,” Mr. Metz adds. That’s probably because most researchers see robots being used in warehouses and distribution centers around the world, raising questions about how automation will erode jobs.Revolving doorDealBook exclusive: The Brunswick Group plans to announce this morning that it has hired Michael O’Looney, most recently head of communications at Elliott Management, as a partner in New York and Courtney Chiang Dorman, who previously was the C.O.O. of the law firm Wilson Sonsini, as a partner in San Francisco.JC Penney hired Bill Wafford, most recently the chief financial officer of The Vitamin Shoppe, as its C.F.O.Simon Sutton is reportedly stepping down as HBO’s chief revenue officer.The speed readDeals• Lyft reportedly plans to raise the price range of its I.P.O. amid strong investor demand. (WSJ)• Renault reportedly plans to restart merger talks with Nissan and pursue a takeover of Fiat Chrysler. (FT)• Centene has agreed to buy WellCare, a managed-care rival, for $17.3 billion, including the assumption of debt. (PR Newswire)• The Chinese gaming company that owns Grindr reportedly plans to sell the dating app after the U.S. national security panel Cfius raised concerns about its ownership. (Reuters)• Spotify agreed to buy Parcast, a producer of crime and mystery podcasts. (NYT)Politics and policy• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom President Trump plans to nominate as a Fed governor, said he’s no “sycophant” for the president. (NYT)• Democrats see political opportunity as Mr. Trump moves to abolish the Affordable Care Act. Here’s what would happen if the Obama health care law is struck down. (NYT)• The House failed to override Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT)• The Green New Deal failed in a Republican-led vote in the Senate yesterday, as Democrats voted “present.” (Axios)• The Justice Department said that it plans to release a version of the Mueller report to Congress and the public within weeks. (WSJ)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal is slowly gaining support among critics in her Conservative Party — but some want her resignation in exchange for their votes. (Bloomberg)• The E.U. has reportedly suggested that if Britain asks for a long delay to Brexit, its departure could be pushed back until March 31, 2020. (Guardian)• More than half of British business leaders want a deal where Britain is closely aligned to the E.U.’s single market for goods and services. (FT)Trade• The U.S. is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. (NYT)• China’s humiliation in the 1800s feeds into its reluctance to let the U.S. impose tariffs if Beijing fails to keep its promises on trade. (NYT)Tech• Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., will reportedly meet with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff today to discuss the tech giant’s A.I. work in China. (Bloomberg)• A judge will hear arguments on April 4 on whether Elon Musk should be found in contempt of court. (Business Insider)• Three A.I. pioneers have won the Turing award, considered the Nobel of computing, for their work in developing artificial neural networks. (NYT)• Google is reportedly funding “dozens” of new local news websites around the U.S. (Axios)• Palantir reportedly won a Pentagon contract to build a battlefield intelligence system. (WaPo)Best of the rest• Wall Street firms, including JPMorgan Chase and Blackstone, have added #MeToo keywords like “harassment” to risk factors in their annual reports. (Business Insider)• Nissan reportedly paid at least $601,000 in Stanford tuition fees for Carlos Ghosn’s children. (Bloomberg)• Citigroup is being sued for age discrimination by a 56-year-old banker, who claims he was told “you are old and set in your ways” before being dismissed. (Bloomberg)• Lloyd’s of London announced measures to combat sexual harassment at the insurance brokerage, including lifetime bans for offenders. (Bloomberg)• Vice President Mike Pence said that the Trump administration wants NASA to put astronauts back on the moon by 2024 “by any means necessary.” (Verge)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.SAN FRANCISCO — Owning a piece of the gig economy became a reality for millions on Friday when Lyft began trading on the public markets, signaling the start of a stream of stock offerings expected from high-profile technology companies this year.Lyft’s shares rose 8.7 percent in its first day of trading after opening at $87.24, far above the public offering price of $72. By the end of the day, the ride-hailing firm’s market value stood at $26.4 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade. At that level, it was more than 23 times the valuation of the parent company of Hertz, the rental car provider, and bigger than the parent of United Airlines.Lyft’s public market debut formalized the rise of the sharing economy, even though persistent questions remain about the effect of gig-type work on people’s quality of life and their wages. When ride-hailing companies like Lyft and Uber began growing this decade, they hawked their kind of work — where drivers are freelancers who drive only when they want to — as providing flexibility. But with drivers ineligible to receive employee benefits like health care, the businesses have since prompted lawsuits and labor protests.Gig economy companies also have not proved a business fundamental: that they can make money. While Lyft and Uber have been expanding rapidly, they have lost close to or more than $1 billion a year. And the companies are spending heavily on new initiatives like food delivery, electric bikes and self-driving vehicles, making profits a distant prospect.[Unicorns are riding into the public markets, and their elite early investors will be the biggest winners.]Even so, Lyft’s offering means that people will now own shares of the company in their mutual funds and stock portfolios, giving them more of a vested interest in the financial outcomes of gig economy firms. That will be compounded when Uber, the world’s biggest ride-hailing operator, goes public in the next few months in what is expected to be the largest initial public offering of the past five years. Uber will almost certainly become part of index funds, which underlie the retirement portfolios of millions of Americans.“Their business model is completely reliant on an unsettled issue, which is the status of their drivers,” Veena Dubal, an employment and labor law professor at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law, said of ride-hailing companies. “They’ve been trying to shift risk onto workers, and now they are shifting risk onto investors as well.”Those risks sent jitters through some investors on Friday, with Lyft’s shares falling after opening up strongly. The stock dipped to roughly $80 before declining further near the end of trading to finish the day at $78.29.But others turned a blind eye to the steep losses and heavy spending, which bodes well for the herd of other coming tech offerings. Apart from Uber, those set to join the I.P.O. bonanza are Pinterest, the digital pin board; the messaging company Slack; the delivery company Postmates; and the home-fitness company Peloton.Interest in buying Lyft’s stock was so high that demand outstripped supply within the first two days of the company’s road show to pitch prospective investors this month. By the end, the I.P.O. was 20 times oversubscribed, Lyft told investors on Friday.Lyft’s high listing price and performance are a “reflection of the appetite” from investors, said Tom White, a senior vice president at D. A. Davidson, a wealth and asset management firm. “Right now, I think investors generally are focused on growth.”With its initial offering, Lyft leapt ahead of Uber to become the first publicly traded ride-hailing firm. Logan Green and John Zimmer, Lyft’s founders, celebrated the event on Friday in Los Angeles, where pink confetti rained down them as they marked the occasion. The pair had founded Zimride, a long-distance car-pooling service for college students, in 2007. Zimride evolved into Lyft, which initially used the gimmick of fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches to distinguish its service.Mr. Green, 35, who grew up in Santa Monica, and has cited heavy traffic in the area as an inspiration for Lyft, and Mr. Zimmer, 34, used the I.P.O. to announce a program called Lyft City Works. The program will donate $50 million to transportation initiatives in cities where it operates.Mr. Green said he planned to further expand Lyft into other modes of transportation, including public transit.“We want Lyft to be the first app that you open up,” he said. “The biggest investments we’re making today are broadening the portfolio of products that you can access within Lyft.”The offering increased Mr. Green’s and Mr. Zimmer’s wealth, while allowing them to maintain tight control over their company. The pair hold a special class of shares that give them extra voting power, a practice common among tech founders but criticized by investor advocates.During the nearly two-week road show, Lyft pitched itself to institutional investors as a mission-driven company focused on reshaping the transportation industry. It emphasized its do-gooder stance on encouraging car-pooling and reducing the environmental impacts of individual car ownership.Investors’ most frequent question during the road show was what the company would look like in five years, Mr. Zimmer said. “Investors realized that ride-sharing is the tip of the iceberg,” he said.Using independent contractors to provide services has indubitably become the keystone of a generation of tech companies, from ride-hailing apps to food delivery services like DoorDash to hair and makeup services like Glamsquad. Some researchers said contingent work could account for 43 percent of the American work force by next year, though the Department of Labor has reported that the number of workers in gig roles has remained mostly flat since 2005.“I think it’s quite clear that this is part of a larger trend in the economy,” said Sean Aggarwal, Lyft’s chairman. “That makes it an exciting story for the long-term investor. It gives them an opportunity to participate not just in this gig economy transformation but also in this larger trend of transportation as a service.”Mr. White of D. A. Davidson said the good will toward Lyft would eventually evaporate if it ultimately couldn’t make money.“As we get closer to 2020, there will be an expectation that we see them narrow the losses,” he said.Good Sunday morning, and welcome to a special edition of the DealBook Briefing, where we’ll take a deep dive into Lyft’s upcoming public offering. It’s the first of many decacorns about to go public. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)And … they’re off!Lyft plans to make its public market debut in the coming week. The car sharing company’s I.P.O. will be the first of many highly valued tech companies that are expected to hit American stock exchanges this year.Uber, Slack, Postmates and Pinterest have all filed documents with the S.E.C. to list shares. Palantir, Peloton and possibly Airbnb are expected to follow later this year.America’s most successful start-ups have remained off-limits to most investors for years:• Venture capital cash allowed America’s current wave of unicorns to eschew the public markets — and the spotlight that comes with them.• That means a large portion of investors have been unable to buy a slice of the fastest-growing start-ups.With Lyft’s I.P.O., that’s about to change, which explains much of the excitement it is generating. Here’s your cheat sheet for the offering.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Stephen Grocer in New York and edited by Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________How Lyft’s business stacks upFounded by Logan Green and John Zimmer in 2007, Lyft was initially called Zimride and focused on pooling riders for long-distance trips. In 2012, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer renamed the company Lyft and shifted the business toward providing short trips, mimicking taxi rides.Here’s how it sizes up today:• Lyft gave 18.6 million people at least one ride in the last quarter of 2018, up from 6.6 million in late 2016.• It has a 39 percent share of the United States ride-sharing market,  based on estimates by the Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which is an investor in Lyft. That is up from 22 percent in 2016. But Lyft has been offering discounts to riders ahead of its offering, and the company warned: “We believe that much of the growth in our rider base and the number of drivers on our platform is attributable to our paid marketing initiatives.”• Lyft only operates in the U.S. and Canada, unlike Uber, which has operations across the globe.• But it has matched its rival’s innovation, by developing self-driving car technology and expanding into short-term bike and scooter rentals.Its plan for the offeringLyft will list its shares on the Nasdaq under the ticker of, er, “LYFT.”The company expects to be valued at as much as $23 billion. It plans to sell about 35.4 million shares, including the additional shares allotted to the underwriters, at between $62 to $68 a piece. At the high-end of that range, it will raise $2.4 billion.That’s well above the $15.1 billion that private investors valued it at during a financing round in June.And it would make it one of the largest I.P.O.s in the past 10 years. At a $23 billion valuation, Lyft’s offering would rank as the fifth largest since the financial crisis, and among the largest ever for American technology start-ups — only Facebook’s I.P.O. in 2012 would be larger. JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Jefferies are the lead underwriters of the I.P.O. for Lyft. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, the top underwriters of tech I.P.O.s recently, are both working on Uber’s offering.In all, Lyft will have 29 underwriters for its I.P.O., 13 (or 45 percent) of which are firms owned or led by women, minorities and military veterans. By comparison, such firms accounted for 30 percent of the underwriters Facebook selected for its I.P.O. and 14 percent for Snap’s.Lyft’s vision for maintaining controlAfter going public, the company will have two classes of stock: class A shares, which carry one vote each, and class B shares, which carry 20 votes. Lyft plans to sell only class A shares in the offering.Lyft’s two founders will hold the Class B shares. That means that Mr. Green, the C.E.O., and Mr. Zimmer, the president, will own roughly 5 percent of the company’s outstanding stock but control nearly 49 percent of its voting shares.This is quite normal in Silicon Valley. Facebook and Google went public with a dual-class structure that gave outside shareholders one vote per share and insiders 10 votes per share. Snap went further: It issued only nonvoting shares during its 2017 I.P.O.But the practice is increasingly controversial among governance experts. Kenneth Bertsch, the executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, said in a letter to Lyft’s outside board members: “The principle of one-share, one-vote is a foundation of good corporate governance and equitable treatment of investors.”Companies with dual-class stock structures outperformed those with a single stock structure in recent years, according to some studies. But prior to 2010, studies show, such companies didn’t perform as well.A look at Lyft’s booksLyft is growing quickly. Its revenue more than doubled to $2.16 billion last year from 2017.Its losses are also increasing, though not nearly as quickly. The company reported a loss of $911 million last year, up from $688 million in 2017. Total costs and expenses were $3.1 billion in 2018, up 77 percent from $1.8 billion in 2017. Uber’s losses are smaller in percentage terms. Lyft’s rival, which has disclosed its finances for several years even though it is not public, said in February that it lost $1.8 billion in 2018 on net revenue of $11.3 billion.Bookings, which represent fares less taxes, tolls and tips, surpassed $8 billion last year for Lyft, 76 percent more than in 2017. (In 2018, Uber increased its bookings to $50 billion, up 45 percent from 2017.)Lyft plans to funnel some future profits into ethical investing. In its pitch to investors, it says it expects “to invest the greater of 1% of our profits or $50 million annually toward our social impact efforts.”What can go wrong?The risk factor section of any I.P.O. prospectus acts as a warning label for investors. Lyft’s is no different, but it offers a discussion of regulatory and data security issues that could become a recurring theme in this year’s I.P.O.s.Rivals: The company faces a long list of competitors on several fronts. Uber, Gett (along with its acquisition Juno) and Via are its main ride-sharing rivals, along with regular taxi companies and automotive manufacturers, such as BMW, that are looking to enter the sector. Its bike and scooter sharing business faces competition from Lime, Bird and Uber’s acquisition Jump. And Waymo, Apple, Baidu, Uber and a number of other tech and auto companies compete with it on autonomous vehicles.Regulation: Lyft says its industry is “rapidly evolving and increasingly regulated.” It warns investors that it has “been subject to intense regulatory pressure from state and municipal regulatory authorities across the United States and Canada, and a number of them have imposed limitations on or attempted to ban ride sharing.”Labor: Lyft’s million-plus drivers are independent contractors, not employees. Legal actions that classify them as employees “could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations,” the company says.Autonomous driving: Among the biggest risks involved in the push to driverless cars is getting beaten in the race. The first companies to offer autonomous ride sharing “are expected to have long-term advantages compared with traditional non-autonomous ride sharing offerings,” Lyft says.Who’s going to get rich?For Lyft’s current shareholders and employees, the I.P.O. could provide a windfall. Here’s a rundown of who stands to gain.• Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer will hold stakes in the company that are set to be worth $570 million and $390 million, respectively.• The Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten is Lyft’s biggest shareholder, with a 13 percent stake. At $68 a share, its holdings would be valued at $2.1 billion. It will own 11.6 percent of Lyft’s stock after the I.P.O.• General Motors invested $500 million in Lyft in 2016. That stake could be worth as much as $1.27 billion at the time of the I.P.O.• The fund giant Fidelity is Lyft’s third largest shareholder. Its stake could be worth as much as $1.26 billion.• Alphabet owns 12,828,964 shares, most of them purchased by its venture capital arm, CapitalG. That stake is worth $870 million at the high end of the range.• The venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz was among the earliest investors in Lyft. At $68 a share, the firm’s stake will be valued at just over $1 billion.Inside Lyft’s boardGovernments and money managers have made a push to improve gender diversity on corporate boards. Last fall, California, where Lyft is headquartered, became the first state to require its publicly held corporations to include women on their boards.Lyft will have three women on its board:• Valerie Jarrett. The former senior adviser to President Barack Obama has been on Lyft’s board since July 2017.• Maggie Wilderotter. The former chief executive of the telecom company Frontier Communications joined Lyft’s board in May 2018.• Ann Miura-Ko. The co-founder of Floodgate Fund, a venture capital firm, has served on the board since June 2016.Rounding out the board of directors are: its chairman, Sean Aggarwal, of Soar Capital; Ben Horowitz of Andreessen Horowitz; David Lawee of CapitalG; and Hiroshi Mikitani of Rakuten.What everyone’s saying about the I.P.O.Lyft and Uber are unlike any other businesses, Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. That “makes it difficult for potential investors to feel confident that they’re paying the right price given the potential reward and the potential risk that the on-demand ride business isn’t financially viable or as large as optimists believe.”Lyft’s investors “will need to strap themselves in for what may be long periods of rather ugly numbers,” according to Heard on the Street’s Dan Gallagher. That’s because “decacorns tend to share two characteristics: plenty of money and a propensity to spend it in a race to build up share.”“Investors may still want to decide between” Lyft and Uber, argues Richard Beales of Breakingviews. “If their fear of missing out allows them to look past the absence of foreseeable profit at either company, though, it’s hard to see any sensible course other than to put money on both.”“The last time a fast-growing, lossmaking tech company tried this hard to persuade Wall Street to judge it by its own measure of profits, things didn’t end well,” the FT’s Richard Waters writes. He is referring to Groupon.And finally, its elevator pitchAn I.P.O. prospectus often features an idealistic, sometimes corny, letter from the company’s founders about their vision for the firm. Here are a couple of choice cuts from Lyft’s letter:“The Y in Lyft. The why in what Lyft is doing is most important to us, as well as the cities and communities we serve, and it will always be our company’s North Star. Lyft’s mission is to: improve people’s lives with the world’s best transportation.”“Lyft has the opportunity to deliver one of the most significant shifts to society since the advent of the car. We do not take that lightly, and we intend to lead this shift with integrity, humanity and strong execution.”Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.You can find live updates throughout the week at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.It is no secret that the French telegraphic service treated the public with scant courtesy during the war, delivering despatches when and to whom it pleased, but the extent of its abuses as elicited by the committee appointed by the Chamber of Deputies to investigate into State contracts during the war will nevertheless astonish everybody.This investigation — the results of which are published in the “Temps” — shows that the Telegraphic Control Section, of which M. Tannery was the head and Captain Ladoux and M. Pierre Lenoir were active members, was responsible for scandalous abuses.For instance, in the course of the investigation M. Tannery recognized that on an average at the Paris Telegraph Bureau 40,000 despatches were held back daily. The majority of them were never delivered and the others were distributed after great delay. The despatches which were retained were in the main thrown into a basket and when the accumulation had become too great they were destroyed. The Control Section never made any inquiry and neither the senders or those to whom the despatches were addressed were ever informed.It must be admitted that these telegraph authorities were no respecters of persons. Telegrams sent by or to foreign sovereigns, princes, and diplomatists were treated like the despatches of Tom, Dick or Harry. In fact, the close attention and all the patience of the Delegation of Foreign Affairs was needed to prevent the systematic holding up of these State telegrams.The Foreign Affairs Department, in support of a protest, stated that the Telegraphic Control Section, unknown to it, stopped all telegrams for Spain, notably those of Ambassadors in Rome and London. Telegrams also from agents of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs were stopped, particularly those from M. Bapst, Minister at Copenhagen.And the Control Section was just as ruthless in regard to the country’s financial interests, for, on the occasion of the last national loan, it stopped or suppressed a considerable number of Stock Exchange orders and stopped despatches of funds destined for the loan.And this is not the limit. The claims of the National Defence received no consideration. The report states that orders of Le Creusot and Firminy were stopped as well as those of other factories working for the war. One of the latter was obliged to close down owing to its inability to forward its demands in the needful time.The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concludes as follows: “Under its present head, the section of Telegraphic Control is an organ of confusion and disorder, which has engendered extraordinary abuses and risked compromising the Government seriously and hampering its general policy.”As a consequence of these revelations, M. Tannery has been relieved of his functions at the Telegraphic Control. But retaining his post at the Cour des Comptes, he was appointed to the exchange commission by the Minister of Finance and then sent to represent the latter in Alsace and Lorraine. The Premier has removed him from the last position.Captain Ladoux and M. Pierre Lenoir are bring prosecuted on the charge of dealing with the enemy in connection with the purchase of a Paris newspaper, with which Senator Humbert is also the subject of prosecution.This pretty scandal comes as a sorry satisfaction to the newspapers, whose despatches were so often held up, lost, or delivered to their rivals, without the slightest excuse or apology.— The New York Herald, European Edition, March 22, 1919SAN FRANCISCO — Pinterest is preparing for its debut on Wall Street with a claim that few other “unicorn” start-ups can make: It is not a financial sinkhole.While the company is unprofitable, according to an offering prospectus made public on Friday, its losses are nowhere near as high as those of other well-known start-ups like Uber and Lyft, which are also getting ready to list their shares. That makes Pinterest — which lets people create digital “pin boards” — one of the rarer unicorns, a term applied to start-ups valued at more than $1 billion by private market investors.The deep losses afflicting many high-profile start-ups have cast investor doubts on the herd of companies that are stampeding toward the public market. Lyft recently revealed that it lost $911.3 million last year. Uber previously disclosed that it lost $842 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 alone. PagerDuty, a software start-up valued at $1.3 billion that also filed to go public this week, said in its prospectus that it was losing money. Only Zoom, a video conferencing company last valued at $1 billion, showed that it was making money, in an offering prospectus it filed on Friday.Pinterest’s filing reported that the company had lost $63 million in 2018. But that was much narrower than a year earlier, when it lost $138 million.At the same time, Pinterest is growing quickly. The company’s revenue, which came from advertising, totaled $756 million last year, up 60 percent from a year earlier. It listed a cash stockpile of $628 million.Pinterest also said in the filing that it had 265 million monthly active users in the fourth quarter of 2018, compared with 216 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Its number of users has grown steadily over the last two years, particularly as people outside the United States have begun to gravitate to its service.In its prospectus, Pinterest called itself “a productivity tool for planning your dreams.” The San Francisco company emphasized the visual, image-driven nature of its product, as well as its ability to capture people’s intent to buy things related to their pins. It said its mission was to “bring everyone the inspiration to create a life they love.”The document provides the first detailed look at Pinterest’s balance sheet. The company confidentially filed to go public in February, with Goldman Sachs, J. P. Morgan and Allen & Company underwriting the offering. It plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PINS.The filing did not say how much money Pinterest hopes to raise in the offering and did not specify potential share prices. Private market investors, who have poured around $1.5 billion into the company, last valued it at $12 billion. Its largest shareholders include Bessemer Venture Partners, FirstMark Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, Fidelity Investments and Valiant Capital Management, according to the filing.In a move that has become common among tech firms, Pinterest plans to divide its stock into two classes, giving its founders, top executives, employees and directors 20 votes per share. New investors will get one vote per share.Because Pinterest makes money from online advertising, it is a competitor to Facebook, Instagram, Amazon, Google, Twitter and Snap. In its prospectus, Pinterest listed those companies as competitors, as well as Allrecipes, a recipe website; Houzz, a home-improvement website; and Tastemade, a cooking content company.Some rivals are not increasing their revenue as quickly as Pinterest, said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, a manager of exchange-traded funds for I.P.O.s.“Like Snap, Pinterest is in the cross hairs of Facebook, and Facebook has always fought a nasty battle against Snap by copying everything it did,” she said, adding that anyone evaluating Pinterest’s stock should consider that competitive threat.Pinterest was started in Silicon Valley by Ben Silbermann, the company’s chief executive; Evan Sharp; and Paul Sciarra. Mr. Silbermann, 36, previously worked at Google. Pinterest grew out of Cold Brew Labs, a tech incubator founded by the three men in 2008.Although many unicorns made rapid growth their top priority, Mr. Silbermann favored what he calls “quality growth.” That meant he tried to build Pinterest slowly and steadily, even as its growth started to soar in 2011. “Pinners,” as users are known, essentially used Pinterest to create collagelike mood boards that expressed their aspirations.Today, pinners pin activities such as what they wear or what they are making for dinner, as well as ideas for remodeling a home or their wedding, or passions like bookmarking and other craft projects.Mr. Silbermann also deliberately took several years before turning Pinterest into a moneymaking enterprise. In 2014, the company began selling ads. For a spell, its growth appeared to be slowing and it lost executives, until Mr. Silbermann brought in a new chief operating officer, Francoise Brougher, and a new head of sales, Jon Kaplan, both formerly of Google.Unlike many of its social media peers, Pinterest has mostly avoided the proliferation of conspiracy theory and extremist content on its platform, moving quickly to tamp down on such content when it has bubbled up. In February, Pinterest began removing search results for anything related to vaccines in an attempt to stop anti-vaccination memes from spreading across the site.In contrast to many hard-charging and brash tech chief executives, Mr. Silbermann has kept a low profile. He rarely sat for glossy magazine covers or showed up at tech industry conferences. At one point, Pinterest was called an “anti-unicorn” because of how it shied from the spotlight. The timing of the unveiling of its prospectus — late on a Friday afternoon — was also in keeping with Mr. Silbermann’s style.Despite Mr. Silbermann’s low profile, the I.P.O. is expected to generate lots of attention from investors and market observers. “Significant revenue growth and popularity among users is going to be a pretty good recipe for — at a minimum — creating significant buzz around an IPO,” said Barrett Daniels, a partner at Deloitte who focuses on I.P.O. advisory work.Mr. Silbermann also avoided another trapping of tech founders with the prospectus: He did not publish a founder’s letter on Friday to carry on about his company’s mission and history, something that had become de rigueur among other entrepreneurs.Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The first gig-economy I.P.O. is hereAs of this morning, Lyft is officially the first in a new wave of Silicon Valley companies to begin trading on the public markets, Michael de la Merced and Kate Conger of the NYT report.The ride-hailing service is now valued at more than $24 billion, after robust investor demand helped Lyft price its initial public offering last night at $72 a share, up from its first price range of $62 to $68. The company sold more shares than planned, raising over $2.3 billion.It begins trading on the Nasdaq this morning, under the ticker symbol LYFT. Investors will be anxious to see how big a “pop” its shares will enjoy. Some analysts have already given it a “buy” recommendation.Lyft’s stock sale will yield a windfall for its investors, including Rakuten of Japan, G.M. and Andreessen Horowitz. The company’s co-founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will become multimillionaires.But a big challenge lies in sustaining its valuation. Lyft is deeply in the red — it lost nearly $1 billion last year — and has told investors that it will remain so for some time. Matt Phillips and Erin Griffith of the NYT note that early investors captured the biggest gains, making it unclear how much is left for the public market.Wells Fargo’s embattled C.E.O. steps downTim Sloan, who took over Wells Fargo as the bank became embroiled in scandal, abruptly resigned yesterday, as the lender remains mired in legal battles.He became C.E.O. in 2016 after his predecessor, John Stumpf, resigned amid growing scandals at Wells Fargo. (Among them: the opening of sham accounts in customers’ names and improper customer fees.) Mr. Sloan was supposed to help the bank move on.But Mr. Sloan became a lightning rod, as employees complained about a toxic workplace culture and lawmakers and regulators fumed over a lack of reform at the bank. “I could not keep myself in a position where I was becoming a distraction,” he told investors yesterday.Critics welcomed the news. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who had called on regulators to oust Mr. Sloan, tweeted, “About damn time.” Shareholders also appeared relieved, with Wells Fargo’s stock rising 2 percent in after-hours trading.He’ll be replaced on an interim basis by Allen Parker, Wells Fargo’s general counsel and a former partner at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Mr. Parker got the job in part because he has good relationships with the bank’s regulators, according to the NYT.The U.S. sues Facebook over housing discriminationThe Department of Housing and Urban Development accused Facebook in court yesterday of engaging in housing discrimination, Katie Benner, Glenn Thrush and Mike Isaac of the NYT write.• H.U.D. says that the social network allows advertisers “to restrict who is able to see ads on the platform based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin.”• It also says Facebook “uses its data-mining practices to determine which of its users are able to view housing-related ads.”“The lawsuit coincides with a broader push by civil rights groups to scrutinize whether big technology companies are reinforcing real-world biases online by using algorithms to identify and target specific groups of users,” Ms. Benner, Mr. Glenn and Mr. Isaac write.Facebook now faces federal investigations into its business practices from H.U.D., the F.T.C., the S.E.C. and the Justice Department.More: The company has tightened rules on political ads in Europe ahead of the European Parliament elections in May.Why did Ghosn fall? Protectionism, perhapsCarlos Ghosn’s vision of merging Nissan and Renault was controversial within the companies. And according to the WSJ, it was Nissan executives’ fears over France taking a stake in one of Japan’s top companies that led to his downfall.Senior Nissan executives “wanted to derail any possibility of a full combination of Nissan and Renault, which they feared Mr. Ghosn was pushing,” according to the WSJ, which cites documents and unnamed people.They feared French control of the automaker, the WSJ adds. “Two Nissan executives, determined to halt further corporate integration, instigated a probe of Mr. Ghosn, chasing longtime rumors of wrongdoing, until they found evidence of alleged financial crimes to give prosecutors,” the WSJ writes.“The men initiated the probe in April 2018, the same month the French government, which holds a 15 percent stake in Renault, laid out the reasons it wanted a merger,” it adds.Merger discussions have indeed been stymied. The question now, according to Hiroko Tabuchi of the NYT, is whether the rifts are too deep to repair.The Brexit day that wasn’tFor two years, March 29, 2019, was supposed to be the day that Britain departed from the E.U. That hasn’t happened.Brexit has now been delayed to at least April 12. Before then, Prime Minister Theresa May — who on Wednesday offered to resign in order to save her Brexit deal — will try once more to win support for her agreement.Lawmakers are trying a new tack to push the deal through. “Ministers said they would disassemble Mrs. May’s deal into its two parts — one called the withdrawal agreement, and the other the political declaration — and ask Parliament to vote Friday only on the first,” Benjamin Mueller of the NYT writes.But the withdrawal agreement is contentious. The document, which outlines the terms of Brexit, doesn’t have backing across Mrs. May’s Conservative Party, nor from Unionist allies in Northern Ireland. But it may appeal to some pro-Brexit Labour Party lawmakers whose issues are with the political declaration, which outlines Britain’s future relationship with Europe.If the agreement passes today, Parliament will meet the E.U.’s deadline for completing the Brexit process, and would have until May 22 to extract Britain from the bloc. If not, Britain could crash out without a deal on April 12 — or it could ask for a longer extension.Investigators believe software is to blame for Boeing crashThe team studying the recent 737 Max 8 crash in Ethiopia has reportedly reached a preliminary conclusion, according to the WSJ: Glitchy automated anti-stall software activated shortly before the plane crashed.• “The emerging consensus among investigators, one of these people said, was relayed during a high-level briefing at the Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday.”• It is “the strongest indication yet that the same automated system, called MCAS, misfired in both the Ethiopian Airlines flight earlier this month and a Lion Air flight in Indonesia, which crashed less than five months earlier.”• “The preliminary finding from the ‘black box’ recorders of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 is subject to revisions, according to the people briefed on the matter.”Boeing announced a series of fixes for the anti-stall system on Wednesday. It said that based on what was known about the crashes, MCAS was in need of updating.3 big deals are propping up M.&A.The first quarter of this year was the third-best for deal-making in two decades, according to data from Refinitiv. But that’s thanks largely to three mega-mergers, without which 2019 would be off to a miserable start.• 8,765 transactions worth $927.2 billion were announced in the quarter. That’s a 30 percent drop in the number of deals and a 17 percent drop in their dollar volume compared with the same period last year.• Bristol-Myers Squibb’s $74 billion takeover of Celgene, Aramco’s $69.1 billion bid for Sabic and FIS’s $34 billion offer for Worldpay helped keep M.&A. volumes up.• Deal makers feel like there’s room for improvement. “We’ve been very happy in terms of big deals but we need more deals overall,” Anu Aiyengar, the head of North American M.&A. at JPMorgan Chase, told the FT.• The fear that’s slowly putting clients off deal-making, according to some advisers: recession.N.Y. prosecutors accuse OxyContin’s first family of fraudNew York State’s attorney general sued the Sackler family, which controls the OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma, yesterday, accusing it of siphoning money from the drugmaker and erasing a paper trail.• “The New York lawsuit alleges that Sackler family members abolished quarterly reports, insisted that numbers be recounted only orally to board members, and voted to pay themselves millions of dollars, often through offshore companies.”• It also accuses the Sacklers of setting up a new drug company, Rhodes, in 2007 to shift the opioid business away from Purdue. (Rhodes eventually overtook Purdue in market share for opioids.)• “The lawsuit also goes well beyond other cases in spelling out in granular detail how pharmaceutical distributors played a role in the opioid epidemic by ignoring blatant ‘red flags’ that indicated mountains of opioids were being diverted for illegal use.”• The Sacklers and Purdue denied the allegations.How Trump inflated his wealthIt’s well-known that President Trump exaggerated his riches to make himself seem wealthier. But David Farenthold and Jonathan O’Connell of the WaPo obtained his so-called “statements of financial condition” — and showed how he embellished the truth.Many figures in the documents weren’t verified, even though they were prepared by his accountants. Instead, the accountants simply wrote down what Mr. Trump described. “In the compilation process, it is not the role of the accountant to assess the values,” one of them said.That led to inflated figures like Mr. Trump claiming that he owned a 2,000-acre vineyard in Virginia (real size: 1,200 acres) or that an estate he owned in Westchester County, N.Y., was worth $261 million (local authorities’ assessment: $20 million).But Mr. Trump may be shielded from fraud claims over some of these documents, because his accounting firm explicitly said it couldn’t vouch for the figures, legal experts said.Revolving doorMorgan Stanley’s president, Colm Kelleher, will retire on June 30, after having helped stabilize one of Wall Street’s most prominent investment banks.Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s chairman and former C.E.O., is retiring.Campbell Soup has named Keith McLoughlin, who served as interim C.E.O. last year, as its new chairman.Barclays has hired Kristin DeClark from Deutsche Bank as co-head of its U.S. equity capital markets business and head of its tech equity capital markets team.The speed readDeals• States like New York are reportedly considering suing to block T-Mobile’s proposed deal for Sprint, even if the Justice Department approves the transaction. (Bloomberg)• Wow Air, a low-cost Icelandic airline, shut down yesterday after failing to find a last-minute financial lifeline. (NYT)• Saudi Aramco reportedly plans to issue $10 billion worth of bonds to help finance its $69 billion deal for control of the petrochemical company Sabic. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Democrats questioned how accurately Attorney General William Barr’s four-page letter to Congress summarized Robert Mueller’s 300-page report. (NYT)• While Mr. Trump called on OPEC to lower oil prices, his administration reportedly took the rare step of meeting with the oil cartel. (WSJ)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, who’s running for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure investment plan. (NYT)Trade• American and Chinese trade officials resumed negotiations today after what Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said was a “productive working dinner” last night. (CNBC)• China is offering foreign companies better access to its cloud-computing market as a concession in those trade talks. (WSJ)• Canada may help its canola farmers after China restricted imports of their crops. (Bloomberg)Tech• Huawei may be struggling to convince the world that it’s not a security threat, but its revenue soared to $105 billion last year, up nearly a fifth from 2017. (NYT)• The F.C.C. has fined robo-callers $208 million since 2015. But it has managed to collect only $6,790. (WSJ)• Apple’s Tim Cook and Qualcomm’s Steven Mollenkopf are scheduled to testify in a trial that is part of a continuing legal battle between the two companies. (Bloomberg)• Goldman Sachs is reportedly developing a subscription service for Wall Street data. (Business Insider)Best of the rest• Lawyers for Nigeria have sued JPMorgan Chase over $900 million withdrawn from a government bank account by corrupt former officials. (NYT)• American companies more than quadrupled the amount of foreign earnings they repatriated from offshore accounts last year. (WSJ)• A majority of revenue at Wirecard, the German financial-payments company, comes from referral partners — some of whom aren’t as significant as described. (FT)• A top shareholder advisory firm has a new benchmark for measuring C.E.O. pay: “economic value added.” (Fortune)• How a woman accused of being a con artist duped a bank out of $100,000: “She understood the financial jargon.” (Sky)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.WASHINGTON — Risks to the global financial system have grown over the past six months and could increase with a messy British exit from the European Union or an escalation of U.S.-China trade tensions, the International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday.The IMF, whose spring meetings with the World Bank begin in Washington this week, noted that the global economic expansion is slowing, and an abrupt downturn could have a far-reaching impact. "After years of economic expansion, global growth is slowing, sparking concerns about a deeper downturn," Tobias Adrian, head of the IMF's monetary and capital markets department, said at a briefing to discuss the international lender's Global Financial Stability Report. The IMF warned against rolling back prudential regulations that could help to buffer the financial system in the event of a downturn."There is a risk that positive investor sentiment could deteriorate abruptly, leading to a sharp tightening of financial conditions," the IMF said in its report. "This will have a larger effect on economies with weaker fundamentals, greater financial vulnerabilities, and less policy space to respond to shocks."On Tuesday, the IMF cut its expectations for global growth to its lowest level since 2016, its third downgrade since October. In Wednesday's report, it cautioned a sharper-than-expected slowdown could spur tighter financial conditions.In Wednesday's report, the IMF urged policymakers to clearly communicate any changes to their monetary policy stances to minimize market swings. Noting investor sentiment had improved since the U.S. Federal Reserve paused its rate-hiking cycle, it warned that a strong shift in Fed policy could trigger a sell-off in riskier assets.CORPORATE DEBT CONCERNSThe IMF also echoed concerns raised by U.S. officials over rising corporate debt levels, saying that corporate sector risks appear elevated in about 70 percent of systematically important countries.A rapid tightening of financial conditions could drive a steep economic downturn, as creditworthiness in the corporate debt market has deteriorated. The stock of lower-rated investment-grade bonds has quadrupled since the 2008 financial crisis, and the stock of speculative-grade credits has nearly doubled. "The U.S. corporate credit cycle appears to be at its highest point in recent history," the IMF said, adding that global earnings growth has "likely peaked."The IMF noted that trading in British and European markets has remained orderly as authorities struggle to negotiate an orderly British exit deal.However, it warned that a protracted stalemate threatens to "unsettle financial markets, damage investors’ confidence, (and) adversely affect business investment."Globally, trade-dependent sectors have risen on expectations of a positive outcome for U.S.-China trade talks, the IMF said, but if those talks falter the organisation expects a renewed sell-off.To guard against financial vulnerabilities, the IMF said policymakers should proactively deploy prudential tools, such as the countercyclical capital buffer and bank stress testing. In particular, regulators should develop tools to tackle climbing corporate debt from non-bank intermediaries. "A rollback of regulatory reforms should be avoided," it added. (Reporting by Pete Schroeder; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Paul Simao)(Reuters) - U.S. retirement plan administrator Principal Financial Group said on Tuesday it would buy Wells Fargo & Co's retirement plan services business for $1.2 billion, as it seeks a larger presence in markets serving mid-sized companies.The move, first revealed last month by Reuters, marks the latest divestment from Wells Fargo, which has been streamlining its business as it grapples with the fallout of customer abuse scandals.Combining the Wells Fargo and Principal businesses will create one of the largest U.S. retirement services providers, with 7.5 million customers, the companies said in separate statements announcing the deal.The agreement also includes a provision for payments worth up to $150 million from Principal to Wells Fargo that are tied to exceeding revenue retention targets. These would be triggered two years after closing, which is likely in the third quarter, Principal Financial said."Principal will gain a strong foothold with mid-sized employers as more than two-thirds of Wells Fargo's institutional retirement assets are in plans ranging from $10 million to $1 billion," the company said. https://reut.rs/2uRbzQ2The deal, to be financed with cash and between $400 million and $500 million of debt, will add to Principal's net income and adjusted earnings per share in 2020. The company said in a separate presentation that its share buybacks would be suspended, resuming no later than the first quarter of 2020.The buyback news weighed on Principal's stock, which was 2.5 percent lower in afternoon trading on Nasdaq. Wells was down 1.4 percent.Once the unit is fully integrated in 2022, Principal said it could see annual net revenue of around $425 million, and pre-tax return on net revenue of 28 percent to 32 percent.The Des Moines, Iowa-based company will take over Wells' contribution, benefit, executive deferred compensation, employee stock ownership plans, institutional trust and custody and institutional asset advisory businesses.Wells Fargo has been looking to trim its business since it came under regulatory scrutiny following a sales practice scandal. In 2018, the Federal Reserve slapped it with an unprecedented asset cap, citing "widespread consumer abuses and compliance breakdowns."The bank is scheduled to announce its first-quarter results on Friday. Lazard is the financial adviser to Principal, while Debevoise & Plimpton provided legal counsel. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP served as Wells Fargo’s legal adviser. (Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru and David French in New York; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila, Shailesh Kuber and Dan Grebler)Bruce, a former medical professional, stuck the landing on his retirement. He saved well and invested wisely during his career, and so was able to quit working in 2011 at age 62. He and his wife figure they have enough money to last the rest of their lives.Their goal: earning a 5 to 6 percent annual return on their balanced portfolio of stock and bond funds.And yet … Bruce hears about things. A friend casually mentioned the 12 percent return he earns from a venture-capital investment. Another got him considering sports-betting stocks. He never thought much about “hot stock tips” in the past, but Bruce, who requested his last name not be used to protect his privacy, has more time to ponder that sort of thing these days. He reads articles online about breakthrough technologies that pique his interest.“Shouldn’t we be investing in marijuana stocks?” he’ll ask his financial adviser, Jeff Hybiak, who is based in New Kent, Va. “What about blockchain currencies like Bitcoin?”This phenomenon is familiar to investment advisers working with retirees or soon-to-be retirees. “A lot of times we’ll see this among higher-net-worth clients,” said Mark Fonville, president of Covenant Wealth Advisors in Virginia. “In a sense they’ve gotten to where they are by taking risks. They may have owned a business or simply made an investment that panned out. They have that bias — that overconfidence bias. It’s a big struggle to overcome it.”Yet older investors obsessed with outsize returns may be putting themselves in real danger. Taking on more risk to generate big gains can jeopardize their investments and, by extension, their entire life in retirement.This is especially true for retirees who may be well off but are not among the superrich. “With a bigger investable pool of funds, maybe you can take on some more risk,” said Marianela Collado, a financial planner in Plantation, Fla. “I worry more about the downside on a $2 million portfolio than on a $15 million portfolio.”When he meets a client who wants to jump into the latest hot tech stock, Joseph Sweis, a Walnut Creek, Calif., financial adviser, typically starts by asking a series of investment-related questions. “I say, ‘Why do you want to buy that stock?’” he said. “‘What’s your price target on it? What’s your targeted rate of return on the stock?’ If they give me an answer, I say, ‘How did you arrive at that number?’”The point of the questioning, he said, is to get them to see what they don’t know. More often than not, “the real rationale for their investment ideas is hype and greed,” he said. “I have a saying: ‘A diversified portfolio is incredibly boring, but I’d rather be bored than broke.’”Some researchers call the years immediately before and after retirement “the fragile decade,” because investment returns during this period take on outsize importance. This is partly because of so-called sequence risk. That’s the chance that you will be withdrawing money from your investments at exactly the wrong time, when values are low. Those assets will never have a chance to rebound as you age.The financial planner Ann Minnium encourages more conservative investing during the fragile decade and finds that clients often push back, wanting bigger returns. “I let them know that five to 10 years into retirement, they can increase their exposure to equities if the plan is on track and they are still interested in taking additional risk,” said Ms. Minnium, who is based in Scotch Plains, N.J. “Sometimes knowing that they may only need to play it safe temporarily is enough to get them to implement the more conservative portfolio, which will ultimately improve their retirement plan success.”Your real appetite for risk: What is it?The truth is, many people think they are more comfortable taking risk than they really are. Then the market swoons, and they panic. Planners often use online tools such as FinaMetrica, Riskalyze and Tolerisk to help gauge the amount of risk their clients are actually comfortable taking.Clients answer several questions about money; for example, “If you had to choose between more job security with a small pay increase and less job security with a big pay increase, which would you pick?” In the end they get a score that reflects their risk tolerance and, in some cases, their capacity for risk. A bigger portfolio or lower expenses, or both, will increase your risk capacity.Ben Rickey, an adviser in Yakima, Wash., is a fan of Riskalyze. “It’s very relatable. They have a graphic that looks like a speed-limit sign,” he said. “So the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index has a speed limit right now of around 74,” he might say to a client. “What’s your speed limit?”Once he knows a client’s risk tolerance score, Mr. Rickey creates a model investment portfolio based on it, along with some more aggressive portfolios. Then he compares them, using software that calculates the odds of any portfolio lasting the rest of a person’s life. “A lot of times they’ll find that by taking more risk they actually increase their chance of running out of money before they die, because it increases the variability so much,” he said.Mr. Fonville likes to show his clients a chart with the returns for two portfolios: one with 100 percent large stocks, and the other a diversified mix of stocks and bonds. “Which one would you prefer?” he’ll ask. They will always say the one with 100 percent stocks because it produces larger returns.Then he shows them a second chart, this time including a 4.5 percent annual income distribution from both portfolios. Again, he’ll ask, “Which portfolio would you prefer?” “They always choose the portfolio that doesn’t run out of money,” Mr. Fonville said. “Ironically, the portfolio that doesn’t run out of money is the lower-returning portfolio.”Even when presented with evidence like that, some people cannot help but gravitate toward riskier investments. What is a financial adviser (or loved one) to do? One solution: Allow them to set aside a small portion of their investments — 5 or 10 percent — for taking fliers.“We call it a ‘sandbox’ account,” said Lorenzo Sanchez, a financial adviser in San Diego. “We put no more than 5 percent of their portfolio in a separate account where they can buy any investment they want. The rest of their portfolio stays invested in a diversified allocation determined by both spouses’ risk tolerance, age, risk capacity and need for risk.”Jeff Hybiak has adopted a similar approach for when clients run to him with exotic investment ideas that he considers unsuitable. He lets them open a “play money” account representing a small portion of their portfolios. His client Bruce, the former medical professional, has one. Bruce began investing in a marijuana exchange-traded fund last year and has seen some big gains. At one point, his initial stake in the Alternative Harvest E.T.F. was up 72 percent, though it since come back to earth.Before he made that investment, Mr. Hybiak ran the numbers to be sure his client could withstand a total loss of his “play money” and not derail his retirement plans. Even without those funds, Mr. Hybiak’s software shows his client has a 90 percent chance of living to age 100 without running out of money.“If he makes money, great,” Mr. Hybiak said. “If he loses it all, it won’t destroy his financial plan. That’s the key.”(Reuters) - Sports Direct chief Mike Ashley has offered to underwrite a 150 million pound ($196 million) rights issue at Debenhams on condition he is named CEO of the British department store chain, the Financial Times reported on Saturday, citing two sources.The owner of the sportswear firm is also considering a 60 million pounds takeover bid for Debenhams this weekend, the Sunday Times said in a separate report.A formal offer is being put together by him and would come with conditions, the Sunday Times said, citing an unnamed source.Debenhams secured 200 million pounds in new funds last week but warned that shareholders still face being wiped out unless it secures financial support from Sports Direct, which holds a near 30 percent stake.Debenhams said Sports Direct needed to either make a firm offer for the group, underwrite a rights issue of new stock, or provide debt funding if it wanted to prevent Debenhams falling into the hands of its lenders. In a letter to the Debenhams board dated April 5, Sports Direct said it would be willing to underwrite the group with 150 million pounds in cash if Ashley was named as CEO, the FT said.Sports Direct was not immediately available for comment and Debenhams declined to comment.Last year Sports Direct bought department store chain House of Fraser out of administration and it has been trying to wrest control of Debenhams for months to further beef up its presence in the sector. (Reporting by Rishika Chatterjee and Bhargav Acharya in Bengaluru; Editing by David Holmes and Rosalba O'Brien)(Reuters) - Uber Technologies Inc may face a cooler reception from investors than expected when it prices its initial public offering next month since smaller U.S. ride-hailing rival Lyft Inc's aggressive stock launch and subsequent fall. Lyft's IPO priced at the top end of its upwardly revised range last month, assigning it a valuation of more than $24 billion in an offering that raised $2.34 billion. But the stock has languished since debuting on the Nasdaq on March 29, as concerns about the startup's potential for profitability have become more prominent. Lyft shares ended on Wednesday down 11 percent at $60.12, well below their $72 IPO price. Lyft was the first in a string of technology IPOs expected this year, including food delivery service Postmates and smart exercise bike Peleton. Lyft's poor stock performance bodes ill for these IPOs, especially for companies like Uber with no profits to show. "There's no discernable way these companies are valued. What you're really buying into is the long-term ability of the company to capture lots of sales and hopefully get profitable at some point," said Brian Hamilton, founder of data firm Sageworks. "I'm sure that the Lyft debut is going to affect both Uber and Pinterest," Hamilton added. Uber filed for its IPO in December with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission during the same week as Lyft. But it let Lyft go first with its offering, partly because it was working on a new private fundraising round for its autonomous driving unit.Uber is now paying the price of going second. It is planning to seek a valuation between $90 billion and $100 billion, short of the $120 billion investment bankers previously told the company it could be worth in an IPO, Reuters reported on Tuesday. Image sharing app Pinterest Inc this week also set the terms for its IPO which would value the company at up to $11.3 billion, below its latest fundraising round which valued it at $12 billion in 2017. Prior to Lyft going public, Pinterest had been weighing a valuation at or near the last fundraising round, according to a source familiar with the matter. Pinterest declined to comment. Uber is expected to make its detailed financial results public on Thursday. It lost $3.3 billion last year, excluding one-off gains, while Lyft lost $911 million for 2018. Pinterest also lost $62.97 million in 2018.Uber declined to comment. GETTING GREEDYInvestors and analysts said technology unicorn IPOs are losing their luster, not just because more investors are asking tough questions about their prospects, but because the startups overestimated pent-up demand for their offerings."Lyft wanted to be first... and it got to a point where they got so aggressive with their pricing and they got kind of greedy," said Catherine McCarthy, an Allianz Global Investors research analyst. The pressure to become profitable will ratchet up once these companies become public, said Jordan Stuart, a portfolio manager for Federated Kaufmann funds who often purchases companies' stock in the IPO."The pace of change is happening so quickly that you have to show that you can become profitable quickly," Stuart said. "Some of these companies could go away tomorrow because it's just an app on my phone and I can find another one in a second to get to work or have food delivered."  (Reporting by Joshua Franklin and David Randall in New York; Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan in New York; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)(Reuters) - Shares of ride-hailing company Lyft Inc rose as much as 4 percent on Friday, setting the stock for its best day since its market debut last week, after short-seller Citron Research advised investors to hold on to the stock.The number of active Lyft riders has surged fivefold to 18.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, from the first quarter of 2016, and those numbers are set to rise further, Citron said, listing several other reasons to not be short on Lyft.As of Thursday, Lyft's short interest was $937 million, with 13.38 million shares shorted, which makes up about 41.2 percent of its float, according to data from S3 Partners, a financial technology and analytics firm.Citron, which has held a stake in Lyft for the last two years, said it has increased its position in the company in the open market.Describing ride-sharing as a "megatrend", and not just a fad, Citron said Lyft has good prospects, especially since millennials are foregoing car ownership for ride-sharing."This is not a trendy video game or a GoPro camera... this is a way of life that is saving people time and ensuring safety," the note said."The entire rideshare market in the U.S. only accounts for 1 percent of miles traveled today…. we have only just begun," Citron said.But brokerage Seaport Global, which started coverage on Lyft with a "sell" rating on Tuesday, said it was skeptical that consumers will give up car ownership in favor of relying on ride-hailing services.Daiwa Capital Markets also initiated coverage on the company on Thursday, with an 'outperform' rating and a price target of $80. The rating reflects strong revenue growth potential ahead for the company, the brokerage said, but added it expects losses to increase through 2020, and then reach break even by the end of 2022.Lyft's shares fell below their IPO price of $72 on their second day of trading, erasing all debut gains, after market research companies cited lack of a clear path to profitability. The company did not mention when it would turn profitable. It reported a loss of $911 million in 2018, wider than its $688 million loss in 2017, despite revenue doubling in 2018 to $2.16 billion.Daiwa added autonomous robotaxis, currently under development at tech and auto companies, are among the biggest threats to the company. (Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru; Editing by James Emmanuel)PARIS/OSLO — Stock market operators Euronext and Nasdaq, both vying for the control of Norway's Oslo Bors, have been deemed fit and proper owners by the Norwegian financial supervisory authority, the finance ministry said.The verdict leaves it to the government to decide the outcome of the battle for control of one of the last independent stock market operators in northern Europe, which began when Euronext made a first, unsolicited move in December.The Norwegian bourse's response was to seek new bidders, encouraging U.S.-based Nasdaq to make a rival offer. Both bids are now set at 158 Norwegian crowns per share, valuing Oslo Bors at around 6.8 billion crowns (£606 million)."We can confirm that we've received the advice, and that both Euronext and Nasdaq were found fit and proper," a finance ministry spokeswoman said on Monday. The ministry has until May 14 to issue a ruling, although the deadline could be extended by a further 20 working days if it requires additional information, she added.Earlier this month, Euronext said it had secured the backing of the holders of 53.1 percent of the shares in Oslo Bors, giving it a lead over Nasdaq, which has backing from about one third of the owners.The Norwegian government has so far declined to say whether it will demand that any buyer meet a higher ownership threshold - such as a two-thirds majority - in order to prevent a minority owner from blocking changes in company bylaws.If a bid is made conditional on owning significantly more than 50 percent, it could further complicate the takeover attempts."Euronext is convinced it is the best owner for Oslo Bors VPS, and welcomes the positive recommendation of the Norwegian financial supervisory authority to the Ministry of Finance," Euronext CEO Stéphane Boujnah said in a statement on Monday.The operator of stock markets in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Dublin and Lisbon said it directly holds 8.1 percent of the shares in Oslo Bors and other shareholders have irrevocably pre-committed or tendered 45 percent of the shares.The Oslo Bors board, and its largest shareholders DNB and pension fund KLP which own 20 percent and 10 percent stakes respectively, continue to back the Nasdaq offer."We are pleased to be have been deemed fit and proper by the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority," said a Nasdaq spokesman. Euronext shares were up 1.6 percent in early session trading in Paris. (Writing by Sudip Kar-Gupta and Gwladys Fouche, Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips and Kirsten Donovan)AMSTERDAM — More than 40 licenses were issued in 2018 to businesses moving to Amsterdam from London due to Britain's departure from the European Union, the Dutch financial markets regulator said on Thursday.In its 2018 annual report the AFM said it had held discussions with 150 companies and expects 30 to 40 percent of the European stock and bond market to move to the Netherlands in the event of Brexit.European leaders agreed during emergency negotiations in Brussels overnight to give Britain six more months to prepare for its departure from 27-member bloc. Dozens of trading firms were among those to apply for licenses, Reuters has reported, resulting in a permanent shift away from London. The AFM did not name the parties that received licenses."Brexit had a major impact on financial markets in 2018 and the role of the Financial Market Regulator (AFM)," it said in a statement. "The organization and the ICT infrastructure is prepared for up to 14 times more trading volumes." (Reporting by Anthony Deutsch; Editing by David Holmes)LONDON — The European Union's markets watchdog began its third stress test of 16 clearing houses on Wednesday, saying it was adding a new requirement and that three British clearers won't take part if there is a no-deal Brexit.Clearing houses stand between the two sides of a stock, bond and derivatives trade, ensuring its safe and swift completion even if one side goes bust.The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) said the new component will assess the impact of liquidation costs or ability of a clearing house member to sell large positions to raise funds in stressed markets.Clearing houses have grown since the financial crisis a decade ago, after regulators ruled that swathes of the derivatives market must be cleared to increase transparency and safety.But that raised concern that some clearing houses were now too big, meaning their failure would bring down the financial system. Consequently, regulators introduced "stress tests" to see whether they could cope with theoretical shocks without taxpayer handouts."ESMA’s stress tests continue to evolve, we have built on the knowledge acquired in the first two exercises and have added a new component on concentration risk to ensure the exercise is fit for purpose," ESMA chair Steven Maijoor said in a statement.ESMA said that if Britain leaves the European Union without a deal, the three UK clearing houses currently included in the test would not take part.London-based LCH, part of the London Stock Exchange Group, is one of the world's biggest clearing houses, and clears most euro-denominated interest rate swaps. LCH has a subsidiary in Paris, which is also being tested.The other two UK clearers are ICE Clear Europe and LME Clear.Clearing houses must already show regulators they could survive their two biggest members going bust, but EU policymakers worry the sector is not regulated enough.Results of the test will be published in the second quarter of 2020. (Reporting by Huw Jones; editing by Louise Heavens, Larry King)LONDON — Aquis Exchange has revised its no-deal Brexit strategy in an effort to steal a march on rivals in the face of curbs on where investors can buy and sell stocks. The pan-European stock trading platform said on Tuesday that customers would be able to trade EU27 listed stocks in London as well as on its new Paris platform from Monday morning if the UK leaves the European Union without an exit deal. UK and Swiss shares would continue to be offered in London only. Britain is due to leave the EU on Friday unless it secures a "standstill" transition agreement to avoid a disruptive departure. Prime Minister Theresa May will ask an EU summit on Wednesday for a delay until at least the end of June. "Most volume in EU27 stocks would probably be done in London," Aquis Chief Executive Alasdair Haynes said in a statement. It originally planned to offer EU27 stocks in Paris only to avoid harming prices by splitting trading. Larger rivals Cboe and London Stock Exchange's Turquoise, which have new EU hubs in Amsterdam, have announced similar changes. Aquis says it was going a step further by offering EU27 shares in London immediately after a no-deal Brexit to stop national exchanges in the bloc taking the business. Cboe and Turquoise have said they would seek to reintroduce EU27 shares in London later in the year. The EU's markets watchdog ruled last month that fund managers could only trade 6,200 shares in the bloc if Britain leaves without a deal. These are mostly EU27 listed stocks but also include 14 from Britain. If Britain's Financial Conduct Authority takes tit-for-tat action to require UK and many EU shares to be traded in Britain, it would give Aquis an early advantage over Turquoise and Cboe. Such a retaliatory move was "highly likely", Haynes said. The FCA has declined to comment on its plans. Aquis will revert to its preferred plan of trading EU27 shares only in Paris when it is clear the FCA won't introduce trading curbs, Haynes said. "My understanding is that the UK government does not want to see EU27 business move from London to Europe and will do whatever it can, unless some form of equivalence or financial services deal is agreed, to allow business to remain in London," he said. Trading in European government bonds and repurchase agreements on CME's London unit has already moved to Amsterdam. (Reporting by Huw Jones, editing by Mike Harrison)Savings accounts still aren’t generating much income, and yields on bonds have fallen lately. Stock dividends have been holding their own, however.The yield of the S&P 500 was 1.85 percent on Wednesday, down less than 0.1 percentage point from the end of October, while 10-year Treasury yields fell more than half a percentage point over the same period, to 2.47 percent from 3.12 percent.The narrowing yield spread between stocks and bonds could make owning funds that focus on big dividend payers seem like a sound idea. But doing so carries risks, several strategists say.The outlook for interest rates remains cloudy, and many high-yielding stocks are expensive, relative to historical norms, yet funds with high dividend yields have still managed to underperform the market for several years. So the search for yield should be approached warily, with an eye toward stocks that pay decent, but not extremely high, dividends and that, most of all, have the capacity to increase their payouts regularly.Dividend payers “can be a good component of a portfolio of equities when you have high-quality dividend growth,” said Carin Pai, director of equity management at Fiduciary Trust Company International, a wealth management firm. But, she warns: “If you’re looking just at yield, it could be a sucker bet.”You could be excused for thinking you made one of those if you’ve had your money in some of the highest-yielding stock funds. The 10 percent of domestic stock funds that have the highest dividend yields in each of three categories — smaller, midsize and larger companies — underperformed their peer groups over one, three and five years through March.One reason that high-yielding funds are being shunned across the board could be that interest rates were heading higher until very recently. Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds have been rising for most of the last three years, although they are roughly where they were five years ago. And yields on Treasury bills and other cash instruments have climbed steadily throughout the last five years, from close to zero percent to more than 2 percent.Another factor is that many funds with high yields tend to own value stocks, which generally trade at valuation discounts — hence the name — because they are in economically sensitive industries, such as heavy manufacturing and engineering, commodities, transportation and construction. Their share prices have a habit of fluctuating more than those of companies that are comparatively immune to the economic cycle, so investors often insist on paying lower multiples of earnings to own them.That has been the case especially during the tepid economic recovery from the global financial crisis. Value stocks have been avoided in favor of companies in more stable, defensive growth sectors, like consumer staples and health.The weakness of high-yield stock funds is “a value-versus-growth thing,” said Jeff Porter, chief investment officer at Sullivan Bruyette Speros & Blayney, a financial advice firm. “Value stocks have underperformed, and with interest rates so low, growth companies’ earnings way out in the future are more highly valued today.”Because of the strong demand for stocks in companies that display stable growth, and in other high-yield niches like utilities, funds that pay high income have become expensive, with many trading at a premium to the broad stock market, even though they have underperformed, Mr. Porter said.“As people have chased utilities and consumer staples, that desire for safety has bid those up to prices that are no longer adding value,” he said.Mr. Porter, like Ms. Pai, prefers companies that are likely to increase their dividends, even if their current yields are not that high. A recent report by Bank of America noted that stocks with sustainable or growing yields are trading at a rare valuation discount to high-yield stocks. That could provide a cushion should rates fall.And, of course, the Federal Reserve may keep tightening monetary policy, or maybe just signal that it’s not going to be as accommodative as Wall Street anticipates. The central bank did an about-face in January, shifting abruptly from hawkish to dovish, that sent stocks soaring in January and February, and reaffirmed its stance on March 20; a reversal is not out of the question. Bank of America forecasts that the Fed will raise rates later this year, and its strategists recommend “dividend growth stocks with some cyclicality that can raise payout ratios as rates rise.”The search for yield can be so difficult that Gregg Fisher, head of research at Gerstein Fisher Funds, recommends calling it off, or at least relegating it to a minor role when building a portfolio, even one intended to generate income. He encourages investors to focus on the best businesses, regardless of their dividend profiles. They ultimately will be most rewarding to shareholders, whether they receive dividend payments or sell appreciated stock.“A dividend portfolio is less diversified and concentrated in fewer sectors,” he said. “If the goal is to produce cash flow, not accounting income, you should own a diversified portfolio that has some dividend payers and other stocks that don’t pay dividends at all. You end up with more cash flow and better results overall.”Noting that yields in some foreign markets are higher than what is available from American stocks, Mr. Fisher suggested buying a fund that tracks a globally inclusive index like MSCI All Country World, such as the Vanguard Total World Stock Index mutual fund or Vanguard Total World Stock exchange-traded fund. Each yields about 2.3 percent, well above the yield on the S&P 500.“If you just went for a total market portfolio and took 3 percent to 4 percent checks on that for the next 30 years, that would probably beat 75 percent of anything else people could do,” Mr. Fisher said.For those who prefer more conventional income funds, Mr. Porter recommends Vanguard High Dividend Yield Index, “a good core dividend fund” that trades at a slight percent valuation discount to the S&P 500 and yields more than 3 percent. He also likes Cambria Shareholder Yield E.T.F., which specializes in dividend payers and companies buying back their stock. It recently traded at more than a 30 percent discount to the S&P 500.For investors who may not need current income, he would consider WisdomTree U.S. Quality Dividend Growth, an E.T.F. that aims to own companies with competitive advantages that will allow them to increase payouts.While high-yielding stocks and funds have fared poorly, Mr. Porter thinks the right ones can still be useful, especially this late in the economic cycle, as long as investors refuse to pay too much for them.“Dividend payers have their place in portfolios because they have lower volatility and tend to be higher-quality companies, if you can find value,” he said.In the never-ending tug-of-war between growth and value investing, growth has lately been the strong-armed winner.This year, through the first quarter, for example, the Russell 1000 Growth Index returned over 15 percent, again better than the also excellent return of just over 11 percent for the Russell 1000 Value Index. And growth outperformed value for seven of the 10 years from 2009 through 2018.Until the last decade, however, value stocks often outperformed growth, leading some proponents of the value style of investing to hope for a return to dominance. But there is no assurance that such a shift will happen soon.Growth and value have specific meanings in the stock market: Value investing favors stocks that look cheap using metrics like the price-to-earnings and price-to-book ratios. Growth investing, on the other hand, favors stocks with higher than average annual increases in revenue and earnings.After months of rising stock prices, growth shares have become relatively expensive but not outrageously so, Jeremy Zirin, head of Equities Americas at UBS Global Wealth Management, said. They carried a price-to-earnings premium of 47 percent over value stocks at the end of March. That’s high, he said, but nowhere near the 100 percent premium that prevailed just before the stock market declines of 2000 and 2001. “We’re not at the stage where growth is grossly overvalued, “ he said.Investors can express their own growth or value preference through a wide range of exchange-traded funds. These include the Invesco QQQ E.T.F. and the iShares Russell 1000 Value E.T.F. (Exchange-traded funds are a form of mutual fund that is priced all day on stock exchanges, unlike traditional mutual funds, which are priced only once daily, after the exchanges close.)Tech stocks like Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google, the so-called Faang stocks, are in the growth category. Despite a brutal stretch in late 2018, these stocks have been big stock market winners in the last several years.“The major tech companies have outstripped expectations,” said John Rekenthaler, vice president for research at Morningstar. “Earnings have maxed or exceeded expectations.”Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research, has been emphasizing growth stocks but says: “My contrary instincts suggest we may want to overvalue value relative to growth.”One reason is concern about the strength of the global economy. “Generally, value has outperformed whenever there is anxiety about whether the economy can continue to grow,” he said.Value stocks typically come from industries where investors and analysts see problems; that’s why the stocks are relatively cheap. The question is whether the problems are real or overblown, and whether future price gains are likely. Currently, banks and other financial institutions, and oil and gas companies, make up a large part of the value stock universe.Judd Peters, one of the managers of the Hotchkis and Wiley Small Cap Diversified Value fund, sees promise in both sectors. Banks will become more profitable when longer-term interest rates rise, increasing revenue when banks lend money, he said. “We’re at an historically low moment in terms of long-term interest rates,” he said. One of the fund’s holdings is First Hawaiian Bank, the largest Hawaiian bank, which closed the first quarter at what Mr. Peters called a “very attractive” valuation of roughly 12 times current earnings.Mr. Peters also says the valuations of many energy companies are unreasonably low because oil prices dropped as technological advances increased the supply of oil from shale. “Our view is production increases for U.S. shale producers cannot continue to grow fast enough to keep up with global demand growth,” he said. Mr. Peters said many shale producers have already exploited the best opportunities and are digging at “secondary sites that are more expensive.”On the other hand, fund managers who favor growth investing can point to their recent performance records. Dan Davidowitz, for example, is manager of the Polen Growth fund, which returned an annualized 16.22 percent in the five years through March 29, according to Morningstar.Mr. Davidowitz says he looks for companies that can increase revenue and earnings and beat the overall stock market. He is not dissuaded by high share prices, he says, because they “can be overcome with excellent earnings growth, especially where there is a big competitive advantage.”Still, the high prices of growth stocks shouldn’t be disregarded, some analysts say.“The gap between high-priced and low-priced stocks has been rising for many years,” said Paul Quinsee, the global head of equities at JP Morgan Asset Management. At this point, he said, the price-to-earnings premium for growth stocks is greater than it has been 94 percent of the time over the last 25 years.“This should give investors pause,” he said, though it’s possible that this extreme level of pricing will persist.Mr. Rekenthaler expects that value stocks will again outperform growth stocks eventually. “If I had to bet, I’d bet on value stocks for the next 10 years,” he said. But, he said, because there’s no guarantee that he is right, investing in value stocks requires considerable patience.The United States economy is still humming, if the performance of some of the country’s biggest banks is any indication.JPMorgan Chase and PNC Financial Services Group both reported strong performances on Friday for the first three months of 2019, including revenue that was higher than Wall Street analysts had expected. The banks’ results suggested that events like the government shutdown in January and President Trump’s trade war with China had little impact on large swaths of American businesses and consumers.JPMorgan said its revenue from providing banking services to consumers and businesses was 15 percent higher than a year earlier. The growth stemmed in part from the bank’s credit card business.The economy’s growth “could go on for years,” JPMorgan’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon, said on a conference call Friday. “There’s no law that says it has to stop.”PNC, a large regional bank based in Pittsburgh, also reported lending more to both consumers and businesses in the first quarter.“We remain confident about the strength of the economy,” said PNC’s chief executive, William S. Demchak.Other major banks — including Bank of America and Citigroup — will report their quarterly performances early next week, which will provide an additional barometer of the country’s economic growth.Ross Levine, a banking and finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, cautioned against drawing too many economic conclusions from the bank’s rosy finances. He said the potentially negative impact of things like the trade war with China “might not have materialized yet in earnings.”Wells Fargo also surprised analysts on Friday with higher-than-expected earnings. But the bank achieved the results by cutting costs, while lending in many parts of its business declined. Wells Fargo is still grappling with its long run of misconduct, which led regulators to prohibit the bank from expanding until it cleaned up its act. Last month, the continued problems led to the abrupt resignation of the bank’s chief executive, Timothy J. Sloan.Wells Fargo’s chief financial officer, John R. Shrewsberry, told Wall Street analysts on Friday that the bank had been getting rid of riskier loans, which partly explained the decline in lending volumes.JPMorgan’s stock price rose nearly 5 percent on Friday, while PNC’s was up 3 percent. Wells Fargo shares were down more than 2 percent.As the country’s largest bank, JPMorgan in many ways provides the clearest snapshot of the health of the United States economy. The bank has $956 billion in outstanding consumer and wholesale loans, up from $934 billion a year ago.That growth was consistent with Federal Reserve data this week that showed that consumers were continuing to borrow more, in particular through increased credit card spending. Greater reliance on credit cards and other debt can be a sign of financial stress, but Fed officials and JPMorgan executives greeted the increased borrowing as a sign of consumer confidence.One blemish in JPMorgan’s results was in its investment-banking division. The bank’s revenue from the buying and selling of stocks, bonds and other assets declined 17 percent from a year earlier, which JPMorgan attributed in part to the shutdown of the federal government.SAN FRANCISCO — When Jennifer Tejada, chief executive of PagerDuty, decided to take the software company public, she wanted to avoid this week. The stock market closes on Good Friday, and many people are on spring break. She had also feared being drowned out by a horde of other tech initial public offerings.“I remember saying, ‘I hope we don’t get run over by the ‘unicorn’ stampede,’” she said, using the term for private companies valued at more than $1 billion.Pinterest, a digital pin board company that is also going public, wanted to beat Friday’s holiday, according to a person familiar with the situation. It wound up scheduling its I.P.O. for Thursday — the same day that Zoom, a video conferencing company, will list its shares.And Lyft and Uber, the ride-hailing companies, decided to leave breathing room between their I.P.O. filings so as not to run into each other, said two people familiar with the deliberations, who were not authorized to speak publicly. When Lyft filed first, Uber gave itself a 30-day cushion before revealing its own prospectus last week.The maneuvering is the result of what promises to be a blockbuster year for tech public offerings. With a glut of prominent start-ups coming to market all at once, the companies, their bankers and the stock exchanges face a conundrum: Who goes when?I.P.O.s are generally a crowning moment that validate years of work. So companies approach the day as something more than a financial transaction — it is also a coming-out party, a branding event and a celebration. And it is a time when the companies do not want to share the spotlight.“Most of these companies have been private for 10-plus years, and it’s a huge moment,” said Nelson Griggs, president of the Nasdaq Stock Exchange, who oversees new listings. “Having their own day is important.”The investment banks that manage the I.P.O.s have been working to space out prominent offerings by a few weeks so companies don’t step on one another’s toes, according to three bankers, who requested anonymity to discuss confidential client matters.The biggest concern has been steering clear of the week that Uber goes public, they said. Its market debut next month is expected to be the largest since 2014, and the company has told some of its investors that its stock sale might value it at up to $100 billion. That would leave little attention for any other company.Many companies that plan to list their shares this year are racing to do so in the first six months, to sidestep any potential economic or market downturn. In January, they had to put their I.P.O. plans on ice for a time because the partial government shutdown affected the Securities and Exchange Commission, the agency that reviews public offering prospectuses.Yet even if the stock market and economy remain strong, excitement over I.P.O.s is likely to fade as the year goes on, especially with so many listings on the docket.“There could end up being I.P.O. fatigue because it is going to be overwhelming,” said Barrett Daniels, a partner at Deloitte who focuses on I.P.O. advisory work.If all of the large private tech companies that might be candidates for offerings went to market, they could issue over $100 billion in new stock, said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, which tracks I.P.O. data. That would surpass 2000, the peak of the dot-com era, when companies raised $96 billion.So much new stock could prove difficult for the market to absorb. “I do think there’s going to be some potential indigestion,” Ms. Smith said.Mr. Daniels of Deloitte said, “We’ve never seen so much money be requested in a single year.” He added, “We’re in uncharted waters.”Josh King, vice president for communications at the New York Stock Exchange, said it was capable of handling multiple I.P.O.s and had twice hosted seven on the same day. There is only one finite resource that the exchange must manage for all of the offerings flooding into the market: the opening and closing bell ceremonies, when companies ring in and close out the day’s trading. Still, plenty of slots are available, he said.Many companies use the bell-ringing ceremonies as a branding moment. When Lyft went public last month on the Nasdaq stock exchange, its top two executives, Logan Green and John Zimmer, rang the opening bell from a newly opened support center for its drivers in Los Angeles. Pink confetti rained down, and the celebratory image was instantly memorialized.PagerDuty, which is based in San Francisco and makes software that helps companies respond to complaints and other incidents, was founded in 2009. It became a unicorn, valued at $1.3 billion by private investors, in 2018. On Thursday, it went public on the New York Stock Exchange.PagerDuty did not want to miss the opportunity to stand out on its first day of trading, so it brought Pagey, a smiling, bug-eyed, neon green cardboard-and-felt company mascot, to the New York Stock Exchange’s trading floor. Pagey frolicked around and photo-bombed CNBC interviews with Ms. Tejada.Transporting Pagey across the country from its home in San Francisco was not easy. The bulky mascot suit couldn’t be flat-packed into a FedEx box. Ms. Tejada said PagerDuty’s executives had contemplated buying Pagey a plane ticket.“We held our breath a few times when we didn’t know if he-she-they would make it on time,” Ms. Tejada said. (Pagey has no gender.) But she was determined to get the mascot to the trading floor to help show off PagerDuty’s lighthearted company culture. The company eventually packed Pagey in a customized box and shipped it via courier.In the end, Ms. Tejada’s concerns about being overshadowed by other tech offerings were moot. PagerDuty’s stock soared nearly 60 percent on its first day of trading.The company picked the right date for its listing. Minutes after the market closed that day, Uber unveiled its I.P.O. prospectus — and attention immediately shifted.There has been a divergence on Wall Street. As stocks have approached new highs, expectations for company profits have darkened considerably. Now, with corporate America starting to report first-quarter earnings, stock investors will find out if they ought to restrain their enthusiasm. During the first three months of the year, Wall Street analysts slashed their forecasts for S&P 500 companies’ first-quarter earnings by 7.2 percent, according to the data provider FactSet. The forecasts typically fall as the quarter progresses and analysts get a better sense of how the businesses are performing. But the decline during the first quarter was more than double the typical drop, and the largest cut to earnings estimates during a quarter since the start of 2016.The analysts tracked by FactSet now expect companies in the S&P 500 as a whole to report that profits fell 4.2 percent from a year earlier. It’s a reflection of the slowing global economy, rising costs related to tariffs and wages, and the fact that tax cuts last year, which lifted growth substantially, are now baked in.The souring sentiment around corporate profits has been fairly broad. Seven of the S&P 500’s 11 sectors are forecast to report lower earnings.Corporate profits are typically among the most reliable guides to the future direction of the stock market. And yet American stocks are off to their best start in two decades. The S&P 500 is up about 15 percent this year..“The market has perhaps gotten a bit ahead of itself,” said Kurt Spieler, the chief investment officer at First National Bank of Omaha’s wealth management business. “You need earnings growth to resume. If it doesn’t, there’s a risk of a correction.”So why are stocks rallying as earnings expectations tumble? In part, this is simply a reversal of what sent the S&P 500 tumbling about 9 percent in December: hand-wringing about trade, interest rates and slowing global growth.Since then, the Federal Reserve has put further rate increases on hold, and the United States and China have inched closer to a trade deal. It could be that markets will return to the dynamic that drove stocks higher for most of the decade since the financial crisis: lackluster profit growth that is just good enough to keep stocks grinding higher in a low-rate, low-growth environment.But investors are about to hear from executives and take in company forecasts about the future, and those can push stocks higher or lower. “What will matter is what C.E.O.s say on the conference calls,” said J.J. Kinahan, the chief market strategist at TD Ameritrade. “How do they see tariffs affecting their business? And what are the implications if negotiations drag on.”NEW YORK — BlackRock Inc, the world's largest asset manager, cut total compensation for Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Larry Fink by 4.3% in 2018, according to a filing on Friday.Fink was awarded $26.5 million in compensation last year, compared with $27.7 million in 2017, based on a calculation of his pay in line with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines.Going by a set of calculations BlackRock prefers, Fink's total compensation for the year fell 14% to $24 million. The figures differ because BlackRock reports some incentive pay in a different year."BlackRock’s Board of Directors and I both believe that the performance of our stock price should be a factor in determining the compensation of our senior executives," Fink, who is often quoted for his views on the markets and corporate governance and has been listed among the world's best CEOs by the newspaper Barron's, said in the filing.BlackRock's stock slid 23.5% in price during 2018, its worst performance since 2008, as a severe bout of volatility buffeted financial markets. That compares with a 27.3% fall for a Thomson Reuters index that includes more than a dozen of BlackRock's industry rivals in the United States.The shares hit a six-month high of $457.33 on Friday.Fink's pay is among the highest in investment management globally as well as among U.S. financial firms, according to Thomson Reuters data. In the past the company's pay to executive officers has drawn criticism from proxy adviser Glass Lewis & Co LLC.The company's president, Rob Kapito, was paid about $20.8 million in 2018, a decrease of 5.2% from the prior year, according to the calculations based on regulatory guidelines. Kapito and Fink were among BlackRock's founders in 1988.Earlier this month, New York-based BlackRock made changes to its senior leadership ranks aimed at winning more business from top institutional clients and boosting growth of its alternative investing business.The company is set to report first-quarter results on April 16. (Reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Dan Grebler)Fees on mutual funds and exchange-traded funds have been dropping so low that investors can now get the access and capabilities once enjoyed only by large institutions like pension funds at minimal cost.That’s a great benefit, though the proliferation of low-cost funds can also increase risks for people who may not know how to handle them, strategists say.Exchange-traded funds are priced all day on stock exchanges, unlike traditional mutual funds, which are priced only once daily, after the exchanges close. E.T.F.s also offer some tax advantages compared with mutual funds, said Larry Stein, a certified financial planner who manages more than $30 million at his Disciplined Investment Management firm in Deerfield, Ill.“All of my investments are in very basic traditional E.T.F.s,” Mr. Stein said. “It gives me the greatest diversification at the lowest possible cost.”A fee price war is underway. In a February filing, for example, the Vanguard Group said it was reducing fees on 10 funds with combined assets of $176 billion. Then SoFi, an online lender, said it planned to offer zero-fee E.T.F.s, while Charles Schwab and Fidelity increased the numbers of E.T.F.s. that could be traded without commissions. State Street Global Advisors, Defiance, BlackRock and DWS also announced that they were starting new low-fee funds, while JPMorgan Chase cut the fees on one of its United States stock funds to 0.02 percent.By the end of 2018, XTF, a fund analysis firm, found that nearly three-quarters of all assets in E.T.F.s were held in funds with expense ratios of less than 0.2 percent — just $2 for every $1,000 invested.Low-cost index mutual funds have been gaining popularity, too.In September, Fidelity introduced two index mutual funds with zero expense ratios, even lower than Vanguard’s cheapest index fund, the 500 Index Fund Admiral Shares, which has a ratio of 0.04 percent. The Fidelity funds — the Zero Total Market Index Fund and Zero International Index Fund — took in $1 billion in their first month. In March, BlackRock announced that it would cut fees on its iShares S&P 500 Index Fund to $1.25 for every $10,000 invested from $4, making it BlackRock’s cheapest fund.The failure of most active investment managers to match — much less beat — major indexes such as the Standard & Poor’s 500 or the Dow Jones Industrial Index has created a strong argument for cheap index funds that simply mimic those benchmarks.“More investors are appreciating the virtues of index investing, and more investors are appreciating the value of low cost — the less you pay for your investments, the more you have in your account,” said Rich Powers, who heads E.T.F. management at Vanguard.With just a few E.T.F.s, an investor can build a broadly diversified portfolio in domestic and foreign stocks and bonds.The Bogleheads, a group of admirers of John C. Bogle — the founder of the Vanguard Group and the godfather of low-cost investing — often recommend a simple, three-fund portfolio that tracks the total United States stock market, international stock markets and the domestic investment-grade bond market. Through 2018, such a portfolio, with 60 percent allocated to stocks and 40 percent to bonds, returned 8.2 percent, annualized over 10 years and 5.57 percent over 20 years.Warren E. Buffett has recommended an even simpler approach for most investors: a two-fund strategy, split between short-term government bonds and a low-cost Standard & Poor’s 500 index fund. He said he thinks the “long-term results from this policy will be superior to those attained by most investors.”The explosion of cheap funds has created some dangerous temptations for investors, however. For one thing, the ability to buy and sell E.T.F.s just like stocks can encourage too much daily trading, with associated expenses that eat into returns. Some funds are narrow in focus and not suitable for all portfolios. Simply because a fund is cheap does not mean that it’s a wise investment.Investors should look beyond low expense ratios to the spread in bid and ask prices offered by buyers and sellers. Smaller or more thinly traded E.T.F.s can bear wider spreads that defeat low fees, while bigger, more popular funds tracking common indexes can offer lower total costs.“Broadly diversified E.T.F.s usually trade in a tight spread,” said Mr. Powers of Vanguard. “We always encourage investors to look at the spread, especially when they’re comparing these very low-cost funds.”Another caveat is that a portfolio of basic E.T.F.s or index mutual funds will rise and fall with the broad market. That’s great when markets are rising. But investors who’ve used only index funds during this decade-long bull market could be in for a surprise when a real bear market emerges.If you are likely to need money soon to live on, for example, you will want to make sure you have managed the risk of your portfolio carefully, Mr. Stein of Disciplined Investment management said.“But for young people who don’t need to manage risk, E.T.F.s are an incredible thing,” he added. If all goes as expected and you are truly invested for the long term, he said, there is a good chance that you can “close your eyes and look at it 30 years later and you’re going to be very happy.”NEW YORK — The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4:00 p.m.Stocks are closing lower on Wall Street Monday as falling bank stocks led the S&P 500 to just its third loss in the last three weeks.Goldman Sachs and Citigroup each said their stock trading businesses struggled in the first quarter. Goldman fell 3.8% while Citi shares dropped 0.1%.Advanced Disposal jumped 17.9% after accepting a $3 billion buyout offer from Waste Management.The S&P 500 index fell 1 point to 2,905.The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 27 points, or 0.1%, to 26,384. The Nasdaq fell 8 points to 7,976.The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury was flat at 2.55%.________12:00 p.m.Stocks are lower at midday on Wall Street Monday as corporate earnings season picks up the pace this week.Goldman Sachs and Citigroup each reported profit that beat analysts' expectations, while saying their stock trading business struggled. Goldman fell 3.2% while Citi shares dropped 0.8%.Advanced Disposal jumped 19% after accepting a $3 billion buyout offer from Waste Management.The S&P 500 index fell 7 points to 2,900.The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 61 points, or 0.2%, to 26,347. The Nasdaq fell 28 points to 7,955.The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury was flat at 2.55%._______9:40 a.m.Stocks are mixed in early trading on Wall Street Monday as corporate earnings season picks up the pace this week.Goldman Sachs and Citigroup each reported profit that beat analysts' expectations, while saying their stock trading business struggled. Goldman fell 2.7% while Citi shares dropped 1.2%.Advanced Disposal jumped 20% after accepting a $3 billion buyout offer from Waste Management.The S&P 500 index fell 1 point to 2,905.The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 36 points, or 0.1%, to 26,376. The Nasdaq rose 3 points to 7,987.The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury was flat at 2.56%.FRANKFURT — Germany's Merck KGaA sealed a $6.5 billion takeover deal with Versum Materials after overturning a deal it had agreed with rival bidder Entegris.A bet on a recovery in electronic materials markets for semiconductor makers, the transaction will boost the share of profit that diversified Merck derives from high-tech chemicals to 27 percent from 19 percent previously.Merck, also maker of pharmaceuticals and biotech production gear, this week won the backing of Versum's board for its $53-per-share offer, lifted from $48 previously, having been spurned for weeks."The business combination is expected to significantly strengthen Merck's Performance Materials business sector, creating a leading electronic materials player focused on the semiconductor and display industries," it said in a statement.Merck's swoop comes amid depressed stock prices in the volatile semiconductor industry after demand for mobile devices slowed and prices for memory chips sank.But Merck said https://www.merckgroup.com/content/dam/web/corporate/non-images/investors/events-and-presentations/webcasts-and-presentations/2019/us/Acquisition-of-Versum-Presentation-US.pdf on Friday it would capitalize on global data processing and storage demand mushrooming by more than 30 percent per year until 2025, fueled by trends such as artificial intelligence and autonomous driving.Versum is the former specialty chemicals division of industrial gases group Air Products. Merck, whose shares were down 2.5 percent at 1400 GMT is targeting 75 million euros ($85 million) in annual synergies by the third full year after closing of the deal, which it expects in the second half of 2019, it said in a statement on Friday.The deal will increase earnings per share in the third full year after closing, while the increase will be immediate when adjusted for one-off items, it added.The purchase will be financed with existing cash as well as a $4 billion bridge loan and a $2.3 billion term loan provided by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BNP Paribas Fortis and Deutsche Bank.Merck aims to preserve a strong investment grade credit rating, it said. Guggenheim and Goldman Sachs are financial advisors, and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is acting as legal counsel to Merck. Lazard and Citi are serving as financial advisors to Versum, with and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP as legal counsel.Entegris this week stepped back from the contest, saying it would not improve the terms of the all-share merger signed in January, which would have seen Versum investors receive about $44 worth of Entegris stock for each Versum share.Versum had to pay Entegris a $140 million termination fee. (Reporting by Ludwig Burger; editing by Thomas Seythal/Keith Weir)SANTANDER, Spain/MEXICO CITY — Santander has offered to take full control of its Mexican business through a 2.6 billion euro (£2.3 billion) all-share deal as the Spanish bank chases potentially higher returns available from Latin America.The deal proposed on Friday, which was broadly welcomed by analysts but described as "oppressive" by a major investor, will unwind Santander's listing of 25% of the bank on the Mexican stock exchange in 2012. The move is part of efforts to focus more on emerging economies while cutting costs to counter squeezed margins in mature European markets.While record-low interest rates have prevailed across the euro zone for the past 10 years, benchmark rates in Mexico stand at 8.25%, the highest since the 2008 global financial crisis.The Mexico deal will also bring Santander head to head with Spain's second-largest bank BBVA, which makes about 40% of its earnings from Mexico."(The deal) is an opportunity to gain exposure to a diversified, global bank with growing and more predictable results than those of comparable peers," Chairwoman Ana Botin told shareholders at Santander's annual general meeting.Earnings from Mexico are expected to rise to 10% of group profit, up from 8%, Botin said. Latin America as a whole accounts for 43% of the Spanish bank's earnings.At least one investor, Bill Kanko, president of Black Creek Investment Management, took a dim view of the plan. The Canadian asset manager is the fourth-largest investor in Banco Santander Mexico, excluding the parent, according to Refinitiv data."This is a ‘squeeze-out’ or ‘take-under’, and we have little recourse," Kanko said. He said Santander's offer carried only a small premium that did not fully compensate minority shareholders whose investments he said "subsidized" a spending program that started in 2017.Banco Santander Mexico said in 2016 it would invest $736 million in branches and technology. Kanko said that had depressed earnings in the short term but "made sense to us longer term." "The growth opportunity in Mexican banking services, the repair of their balance sheet, the appointment of a highly respected CEO, the efficiency measures of the bank, and the governance of the parent company – how ironic – were the underpinnings of our investment thesis." Reuters contacted the 15 largest investors in Banco Santander Mexico, excluding the parent, according to Refinitiv Eikon data, for comment. Several, including BlackRock, Vanguard and JPMorgan Asset Management, declined to comment. Others did not immediately respond.MEXICO'S SHRINKING EXCHANGEDamian Fraser, founder of Mexico City-based financial consultancy Miranda Partners, said Santander was also giving a vote of confidence to the new administration of President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, whose economic instincts have at times rattled Mexican markets."They are betting on Mexico, they are putting 3 billion euros on the line. They're believing in" Lopez Obrador, said Fraser, who worked on the Santander Mexico IPO in 2012 when serving as Mexico country manager for Swiss bank UBS AG.The disappearance of the stock did, however, reduce the amount of choice on offer on the stock exchange."The Mexican stock market is already shrinking, it's already fairly illiquid, and this is another blow," Fraser said.The Mexico plan overshadowed Friday's shareholder meeting, where some investors criticised management handling of an aborted process to hire Italian banker Andrea Orcel as chief executive. In an unusual U-turn on such a major appointment, the bank said in January that it could not meet his pay expectations."It's a good decision that you stopped it, but it is a mega-disclosure accident," investor Hans Martin told the meeting, also asking if Jose Antonio Alvarez would remain as CEO for the foreseeable future.Mexico is a highly profitable market, where Santander has set a mid-term target of 19-21% for the underlying return on tangible equity.Santander's shares rose nearly 2% on Friday.Santander, which holds about 75% of its Mexican business, said it would issue up to 572 million new shares, equivalent to up 3.5% of Santander's market capitalisation, to finance the deal.The new issuance is worth about 2.6 billion euros based on Thursday's close, according to Refinitiv data.The euro zone's biggest lender in terms of market value will offer 0.337 shares for 1 share of Santander Mexico and 1.685 shares per share to holders of Santander Mexico ADS. Santander said the exchange ratio represented a 14% premium to the closing prices of Banco Santander and Santander Mexico shares on April 11.Santander expects the transaction to have a return on investment of approximately 14.5%, to be neutral on earnings per share and to contribute positively to the group's core Tier-1 capital ratio. (Reporting by Jesús Aguado in SANTANDER, Jose Elias Rodriguez in MADRID and Stefanie Eschenbacher and Dave Graham in MEXICO CITY; Editing by Jane Merriman/David Goodman and Grant McCool)For mutual-fund investors, the fourth quarter of 2018 was a hailstorm — a stinging deluge in which nearly every sort of investment seemed to get plunked.Yet several top-performing funds managed to find refuge in far-flung corners of the market, like Latin American companies, real estate investment trusts and dividend-paying stocks.T. Rowe Price Latin America Verena E. Wachnitz, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Latin America Fund, was spared the fourth quarter’s party of pain because of where she invests: Latin America was one of the few major markets that rose late last year.Brazil accounted for much of that gain. It endured a severe recession in 2015 and 2016 and anemic growth in 2017. But a stronger recovery began last year, and the Brazilian Bovespa stock index gained 15 percent in 2018.Brazil is Latin America’s biggest economy, and its stocks account for more than 60 percent of the MSCI Emerging Markets Latin America index, so Ms. Wachnitz keeps a big chunk of her shareholders’ money there.“Brazil has a lot of high-quality companies,” she said. “Whatever happens there is key for the region.” Seven of her fund’s top 10 holdings are Brazilian, including two banks, Itaú Unibanco and Banco Bradesco, and an apparel retailer, Lojas Renner.The banks, two of Brazil’s heftiest, are profiting as consumers start to borrow and spend more with the recovery, Ms. Wachnitz said.Lojas Renner likewise stands to gain from a surge in consumer spending. “They’re really going into the digital age, and the consumer experience improves every year,” she said. “Now you can check out directly with employees who have hand-held devices.”Ms. Wachnitz has also benefited from where she chose not to invest: She shied from Mexico, because of concerns about how the policies of its new government might affect the profitability of its companies. Mexican shares make up only 14.6 percent of her fund, compared with 21.6 percent of the index. The S&P BMV IPC, a leading Mexico stock index, lost 15.27 percent last quarter.“I’m not that worried about trade and Trump,” she said. “The new trade agreement is moving forward. But policymaking is deteriorating in Mexico, with a more populist, left-wing type of government.”Ms. Wachnitz’s fund, with a net expense ratio of 1.29 percent, returned 6.01 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of 13.52 percent, including dividends, for the S&P 500. The quarter’s punishments weren’t limited to the S&P 500 and Mexico: Nearly every stock-market sector tracked by Morningstar recorded a loss.MFS Diversified IncomeMFS Diversified Income didn’t manage a gain in the fourth quarter: It lost 3.79 percent. But it still outpaced all but a few competitors by spreading its bets around on income-producing securities. The fund, with an expense ratio of 0.99 percent, aims to “out-yield the equity market but outgrow the bond market and hopefully do so with less volatility,” said Robert M. Almeida, its lead portfolio manager. To do this, it owns both stocks and bonds.On the stock side, Mr. Almeida divides his shareholders’ money among real estate investment trusts and dividend payers and, on the bond side, investment-grade, high-yield and emerging-market debt.His starting point is an allocation of 20 percent of the fund’s assets to each of these asset classes — R.E.I.T.s, dividend payers and investment-grade bonds — as well as 25 percent to high-yield bonds and 15 percent to emerging-markets bonds. He then tweaks the precise weight of each by consulting with MFS’s other portfolio managers and its analysts. “In the fourth quarter, we were overweight emerging-market debt and R.E.I.T.s and underweight high-yield debt and global dividend-paying stocks,” he said.Those emerging-markets bonds represent a wager that the finances of some of the developing world’s governments are safer than the markets may appreciate. Mr. Almeida said many investors fixate on the economic trouble spots in the emerging world, like recently Venezuela and Turkey.“What doesn’t get talked about is Chile and Peru, which are fundamentally strong countries. I don’t think of them as high risk. High-yield debt is risk. There, you’re lending to the lower-quality end of the U.S. corporate market, which is going to have to refinance a lot of debt at higher rates over the next two to three years.”Mr. Almeida said his R.E.I.T. bet stemmed partly from a presentation made by Richard R. Gable, portfolio manager of the MFS Global Real Estate Fund. “Rick was saying the R.E.I.T. sector was the cheapest it’d been, relative to financials and the rest of the equity market, in years,” he said.Among R.E.I.T.s, Mr. Almeida said, MFS prefers those “with properties that are really hard to replicate.” His fund’s top real estate holdings include the Simon Property Group, the United States’ largest shopping-mall owner, and AvalonBay Communities, an apartment owner that is strong in coastal urban markets.American Funds College 2024 and College 2027 The American Funds College 2024 Fund and College 2027 Fund also buy both stocks and bonds. The two target-date college funds don’t invest directly in those securities but do so through other funds in the American family, which is managed by the Capital Group. Both college funds, for example, hold shares of the American Mutual Fund and the Bond Fund of America, which have been part of the American lineup for decades.The college funds are investment options in CollegeAmerica, a 529 college-savings plan sponsored by the state of Virginia. (That “529” refers to a provision of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and anyone can invest in the funds, not just Virginians, though the tax benefits may differ for people in other states.) The 2024 fund lost 1.27 percent in the fourth quarter, while the 2027 fund lost 3.26 percent. The 2024 fund has an expense ratio of 0.73 percent, while the 2027 has one of 0.8 percent.Wesley K.-S. Phoa, principal investment officer for American Funds’ target-date college funds series, said the funds’ bond investments didn’t carry excessive credit risk or unexpected correlations with the stock market, while the stock investments emphasized sturdiness, not sizzle. “We’ve picked stock funds that focus on solid blue-chip dividend payers, and that has delivered the resilience we hoped it would,” he said.Mr. Phoa said college funds present an unusual asset-allocation challenge in that investors — often parents — are seeking the savings growth that stocks can bring but they typically have only about 15 years to achieve that. That gives them less time to ride out down markets, like the fourth quarter’s thumping.“Most parents make steady modest contributions, and a lot start when their kids are 6 or 7,” he said. “When you’re putting in modest amounts, you want to get as much growth as you can. So we’re pretty growth oriented for a young beneficiary. But once you get within a couple of years in college enrollment, that’s the last thing you want. So at this stage, we’re invested very conservatively.”For the 2024 fund, whose intended beneficiaries are now 13 to 15 years old, that translates to about 68 percent bonds, 26 percent stocks and 6 percent cash. For the 2027 fund, whose intended beneficiaries are now 10 to 12, that translates to 54 percent bonds, 41 percent stocks and 5 percent cash.Mr. Phoa said he has recently gained a new appreciation of the stresses his clients face, because his own daughter is 16 and thinking about college. “Once you get within a couple of years in college enrollment, the last thing you want to discuss is what’s happening in the 529 account.”A December rally in bonds as stocks were plummeting turned a really bad year into something a little less painful for investors in core bond funds that are the centerpiece of many portfolios.According to Morningstar Direct, the average core index bond fund lost just 0.14 percent in 2018, and actively managed core bond funds slid 0.39 percent on average.Until late fall, active fund managers, on average, were actually outperforming their index fund counterparts, and had been doing so for quite some time.S&P Dow Jones Indices runs a semiannual check of how many actively managed funds do better than their target index. In the three years through June, the Spiva report found that nearly 70 percent of actively managed core bond funds beat their index. (Spiva is an acronym for S&P Indices Versus Active.)Popular actively managed core funds like MetWest Total Return, Pimco Total Return, DoubleLine Total Return and Dodge & Cox Income all had higher three-year annualized returns through December than the Vanguard Total Bond index fund and the iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond E.T.F.Yet when you widen your gaze toward even longer-term performance, the case for active management becomes less clear.The Spiva scorecard adjusts for “survivorship bias” by including the performance of funds that have been merged or shut down, typically because of poor performance. Fewer than half the actively managed core bond funds from 15 years ago were still in business in June. S&P Dow Jones Indices calculated that fewer than 30 percent of actively managed core bond funds survived the entire 15 years and beat their target index over that stretch.A 2017 Morningstar report gave much the same picture. It tracked performance over 154 rolling three-year periods that began in 2002 and ended in the fall of 2017, and adjusted for survivorship bias.Morningstar found that active management is typically “priced to fail” as the cost of annual fees typically wipes out gross excess returns. Active core funds charge an average annual expense fee of 0.6 percent, compared with 0.2 percent for core index funds, according to Morningstar Direct. Fewer than 40 percent of active core bond funds in the study had a median return, net of fees, over all those periods that was higher than the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate index.Sure, that’s more than a fighting chance, yet when active funds beat index funds in the United States, it typically wasn’t by much. Morningstar found that if it generously assumed an investor had the ability to invest in top-performing funds in each rolling three-year period since 2012, the median net excess return was 0.25 percent — or 25 basis points — above the index, and 0.3 percent ahead of the return of the iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond E.T.F.“If you are willing to spend the time and effort and do the due diligence of active managers in hopes of generating a few extra basis points of excess return, there is some room to do that,” said one of the authors of the study, Mara Dobrescu, associate director of fixed income strategies at Morningstar France.But because the potential payoff is typically close to peanuts, Ms. Dobrescu’s message for D.I.Y. investors is “it’s not worth expending all that time and effort.” Finding an active fund that persistently outperforms is no small hurdle, and today’s low-rate environment makes it tough to generate outsize excess returns without piling on a lot of risk.“If your point is to own bonds for defensive purposes and your aim is to hold long term and to minimize cost, then definitely passive is the way to go,” Ms. Dobrescu said.As chief investment officer at Huber Financial Advisors, Philip Huber is in the due diligence business. While the investment management firm tends to stick with index funds for equities, Mr. Huber said, he prefers active managers such as Pimco Total Return and DoubleLine Total Return for bonds.“I don’t have any problem with people wanting to index their bond portfolio,” he said, “but if you have the resources to research and understand what an active manager is doing, bonds is one area where active can work.”That said, it’s important to understand what has been driving the recent outperformance for fund managers: avoidance of low-yielding but, in some ways, ultrasafe United States Treasury issues.Core index bond funds typically track the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate index. This index owns a mix of Treasuries, agency bonds (mortgage-backed securities) and high-quality corporate bonds in proportion to each bond segment’s share of the American market.Over the last decade, as the United States government has issued more and more debt, Treasuries have grown from 22 percent of the index (and index funds) to 40 percent. The index’s Treasury stake is likely to increase in the coming years because the new tax law has reduced corporate tax revenue and a growing federal budget deficit will require more Treasury debt to pay the country’s bills.The average active core manager has 17 percent invested in Treasuries, according to Morningstar Direct. Among the largest actively managed funds, MetWest Total Return has the biggest stake, at 19 percent. Pimco Total Return and Dodge & Cox Income have less than 15 percent invested in Treasuries. DoubleLine Total Return’s stake is below 5 percent.Snubbing low-yielding Treasuries and investing in higher-yielding corporate and securitized bonds — and, in some instances, international and emerging market bonds — has paid off during the extended economic recovery. Moreover, Treasuries often take the biggest hit when interest rates rise. And that has been the script lately; the yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen from 1.6 percent in the summer of 2016 to 2.7 recently.But Larry Swedroe, director of research at Buckingham Strategic Wealth and author of “The Only Guide to a Winning Bond Strategy You’ll Ever Need,” suggests that a longer-term perspective is needed.“Treasuries are exactly what bond investors should want to own,” he said. “When stocks get hammered, Treasuries tend to go up in value, in the flight to quality. Other bonds don’t.”Among those other bonds are corporate issues. Active managers also have a bigger stake, on average, in BBB-rated corporate bonds, the riskiest segment of the investment-grade bond market. According to Morningstar Direct, the average core fund has 18 percent invested in BBB-rated corporate bonds, compared with 13 percent of the index. Active funds can also own junk bonds and international bonds, both of which are excluded from index funds tracking the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate index.Because active managers typically are light on Treasuries and own other types of bonds that don’t provide as much counterweight to stocks, they tend to underperform just when you need them most.In 2008, when stocks were cratering, the average active core bond fund lost 2.3 percent. The average core index fund gained 4 percent.Mr. Huber said he was willing to absorb periods of underperformance like that because some actively managed bond funds beat bond index funds over longer periods.“There may be too much focus on trying to avoid a repeat of 2008,” he said.Still, consider the performance of the Vanguard Total Bond Market Index fund during the financial crisis, when it seemed that nearly all assets were losing value. In 2008, the Vanguard bond index fund did just what it was intended to do: It gained more than 5 percent.After years of being overshadowed by the likes of Apple and Alphabet, real estate funds have lately edged ahead of the overall stock market by betting mainly on old-fashioned assets like office buildings, malls and warehouses.In the fourth quarter, when the stock market really started to jitter and slide, the S&P 500 sank 13.52 percent, including dividends, but the FTSE Nareit All Equity R.E.I.T.s Index, a leading index composed of publicly traded real estate investment trusts, lost only 6.1 percent. For all of 2018, as the S&P 500 lost 4.4 percent, including dividends, the FTSE Nareit index lost only 4 percent.So it goes for this stalwart, if stodgy, sector: Real estate can often chug along when other sectors start to sputter. For that reason, a real estate mutual fund or exchange-traded fund may help buffer an otherwise diversified portfolio from some of the stock market’s swings. In addition, it’s an entree to investing in commercial real estate for someone who can’t afford the Empire State Building (which is owned by a R.E.I.T. named Empire State Realty Trust).R.E.I.T.s are property owners whose shares trade on stock exchanges. They can own a variety of real estate, ranging from the obvious — those office buildings, warehouses and shopping centers — to the more obscure — data centers, cell towers and even timberlands. Some own residential rental properties or finance home purchases, but those account for only about one-fifth of the overall R.E.I.T. market, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.A share in a real-estate mutual fund or E.T.F. is “effectively a hybrid of debt and equity,” said Michael J. Acton, managing director and head of research for AEW Capital Management in Boston. “The debt feature is lease payments you get from the underlying properties, and the equity feature is the right to re-lease or sell those properties.” The lease payments can provide predictability like bonds, while the property values offer upside potential like stocks.Morningstar, the investment-analysis company, found that from 1972 through 2018, R.E.I.T.s provided a compound average annual return of 11.5 percent, compared to 10.2 percent for United States stocks. Morningstar has also found that real-estate stocks are slightly more volatile, on average, than other stocks. During the global financial crisis, real estate crashed with other stock market sectors, with the FTSE Nareit index falling 37.7 percent.Still, real estate funds and E.T.F.s often can provide additional diversification to an investment portfolio because commercial property markets don’t usually move in lock step with stocks, Mr. Acton said. “There are leases in place, and the cash flows from those leases are already locked in.”In 2013 research paper, Pankaj Agrrawal, a finance professor at the University of Maine, found that adding real estate to a portfolio of stocks, bonds and gold both increased the return and damped the volatility. Professor Agrrawal split the hypothetical portfolio into sixths and allocated it equally across these asset classes: United States stocks, European stocks, emerging market stocks, United States bonds, gold and United States real estate.R.E.I.T.s must pay out at least 90 percent of their taxable income to shareholders. As a result, real estate funds can produce income in much the way bonds or utility stocks do. R.E.I.T.s tracked by the R.E.I.T. association provide an average annual yield of about 4 percent, compared with 1.87 percent for the S&P 500.How much of a fund investor’s overall portfolio should be allocated to real estate is a question, like so many in the investment world, that’s a matter of philosophical dispute.Matthew C. Brancato, a principal and head of the portfolio review department at Vanguard, said investors who own well-diversified index funds, like those built upon the S&P 500, may already have all the real estate they need. The S&P index includes 32 R.E.I.T.s, and together they account for about 3 percent of the index’s market capitalization.Layering a dedicated real estate fund or E.T.F. atop a broad-based core holding would imply that an investor wanted to “express a view about real estate” — either believing that it will outperform the rest of the market or just liking the sector, Mr. Brancato said.But portfolio managers of real estate funds say reasons beyond a fascination with bricks and blueprints might persuade investors to nudge their real estate allocations above that of broad-based index funds.For one thing, the allocations of the marketwide indexes are arguably too small, when compared to commercial real estate’s share of the economy, said Steve S. Shigekawa, senior portfolio manager of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund.“Commercial real estate is a very large market,” he said.Many large pension funds, which often buy commercial real estate directly, hold larger real estate allocations than that of the S&P 500, said Nina P. Jones, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Real Estate Fund. “Many of them have gravitated to 10 percent of their overall asset allocations,” she said. (Ms. Jones took over her fund on Jan. 1, after the retirement of David M. Lee, who led it since its 1997 inception.)Though real estate has performed well lately, there are, to swipe a line from the blues singer Robert Johnson, stones in its passway: Interest rates are rising, and retail real estate is being squeezed by the rise of e-commerce.Conventional wisdom says rising rates hurt real estate. The logic behind this is simple, said Jennifer Cookke, a lecturer in the Center for Real Estate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “You typically have debt on a property,” she said. “So when interest rates rise, costs are higher, and that reduces profit.”The managers of the Neuberger Berman Real Estate Fund delved into whether rates really do damp R.E.I.T.s and learned that the effect was often temporary, said Brian Jones, who manages the fund with Mr. Shigekawa. “What we found is, in periods where interest rates were spiking, the performance of R.E.I.T.s suffered,” Mr. Jones said. “But if you go six and 12 months beyond a rate spike, R.E.I.T.s shares typically recover and do very well.”E-commerce’s effects won’t be sloughed off so easily. They can be summarized in a single name: Amazon. The online giant (and other e-commerce companies) is changing how people shop and raising questions about the need for physical storefronts.Steven J. Buller, portfolio manager of Fidelity Real Estate Investment Portfolio, said he foresaw continued demand for bricks-and-mortar stores — just fewer of them. “There’s too much retail space in the United States — 24 square feet a person, which is twice as much as Canada,” which has the second-highest amount in the world, he said.This country has 1,200 shopping malls alone, Mr. Buller said. “There are 400 class-A malls, and I think those will survive. The other 800? I don’t know.” Mr. Buller has allocated about 20 percent of his fund to retail holdings, and the Simon Property Group, the country’s largest mall R.E.I.T., is among his top stakes.An investor who wants to bet on real estate must make the usual choice between actively managed funds, like those offered by Neuberger Berman, T. Rowe Price and Fidelity, and passively managed indexed offerings.The latter include the Vanguard Real Estate Index Fund (which is also offered as an E.T.F.), the Schwab U.S. R.E.I.T. E.T.F. and the SPDR Dow Jones R.E.I.T. E.T.F.A misconception of some investors is that they’ve already diversified their portfolio with real estate because they own a house and perhaps a vacation rental, said Mr. Jones, of the Neuberger Berman fund. That sort of ownership is a narrow bet on one or two markets, comparable to owning one or two stocks instead of, say, an S&P 500 index fund. “You don’t derive the same diversification benefit that you can get from a R.E.I.T. fund,” he said.SoftBank is increasing its ownership stake in WeWork yet again, investing a further $2 billion in the fast-growing co-working company, according to three people familiar with the deal.But the deal, which is likely to be announced this week, is far smaller than an investment that was recently under consideration and could have been worth some $16 billion, the people said. They spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk about the deal publicly.The latest investment — which is coming from SoftBank itself, not its nearly $100 billion Vision Fund — values WeWork at $47 billion, and brings SoftBank’s total investment in WeWork to about $10.5 billion, they said.SoftBank, a Japanese telecom conglomerate led by the billionaire Masayoshi Son, is reinforcing its commitment to WeWork even as the complex relationship between the two companies is under growing scrutiny.SoftBank now has multiple investments in WeWork, including equity positions, warrants and joint ventures. Much of its capital in WeWork is from the SoftBank Vision Fund, which is largely backed by the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia.Yet after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, which American intelligence agencies believe was directed by the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, many in the technology industry are reassessing their willingness to take money from the kingdom.WeWork has emerged as one of the most valuable private companies, even as it continues to lose money. Though WeWork is the clear leader in the emerging co-working industry, it is essentially a commercial landlord, sprucing up office space and leasing it back to commercial clients.In August it reported that it had more than 250,000 paying members, more than double the figure from a year earlier. It is also expanding its enterprise business, leasing large offices to companies like Amazon, Pepsi and Salesforce.Yet WeWork continues to spend far more than it makes. It reported a loss of $723 million for the first half of last year as it built new co-working spaces around the globe. That old-school business model has led many analysts to believe that WeWork is wildly overvalued.“The valuation is going to take a significant amount of growth to justify it,” said Alex Snyder, senior analyst at CenterSquare, a real estate investment firm in Philadelphia.Nonetheless, Mr. Son has emerged as one of WeWork’s biggest boosters. As recently as last month, SoftBank was considering a larger investment in WeWork, according to the three people with knowledge of the deal. Under one possibility, SoftBank would have spent $10 billion to buy out all of WeWork’s other investors and injected $6 billion more in the company.But several factors led to a smaller deal, they said. SoftBank proceeded with an initial public offering of its mobile unit in Japan, only to watch shares slide. Market volatility worldwide caused investors to be more cautious. And other WeWork investors were reluctant to sell too many of their shares to SoftBank.The result was a deal, earlier reported by The Financial Times, for SoftBank to invest $2 billion more into WeWork.That brings SoftBank’s total investment in WeWork to $6 billion in the last six months. In August, SoftBank put $1 billion into the company. And in December, SoftBank spent $3 billion for a warrant that gave it the right to buy additional equity in WeWork.In 2017, SoftBank invested about $4.5 billion in the company with a web of deals. It spent $1.3 billion to buy shares from WeWork investors and employees. It injected some $1.7 billion to bolster WeWork’s balance sheet. And SoftBank spent $1.5 billion to take major positions in WeWork’s subsidiaries in Japan, China and the Pacific region.“They’re our closest partner, and they’ve been extremely supportive,” Artie Minson, WeWork’s president, said of SoftBank in an interview.About $5 billion of the recent investments will go to shore up WeWork’s balance sheet. Much of those funds will be available to WeWork this year, but as much as $1.5 billion will be held back until 2020, according to the three people.“They are vastly outspending their cash flow position to sustain their growth,” Mr. Snyder said. “You can do that as long as people are willing to give you the money.”About $1 billion of the new investments will be used to buy shares from investors and employees, who will get a chance to cash out. Investors and employees who do sell stock to SoftBank will have their shares valued in the mid-$50s, giving WeWork an implied valuation of just over $20 billion.As WeWork continues its costly expansion plans, it could remain reliant on investors like SoftBank for support. SoftBank, meanwhile, may need to continue supporting WeWork to ensure that the start-up can live up to its lofty expectations.“SoftBank will continue to give them money to justify the money they’ve already put in,” Mr. Snyder said.Do you remember the winter of debt?In late 2010 and early 2011, the U.S. economy had barely begun to recover from the 2008 financial crisis. Around 9 percent of the labor force was still unemployed; long-term unemployment was especially severe, with more than 6 million Americans having been out of work for 6 months or more. You might have expected the continuing employment crisis to be the focus of most economic policy discussion.But no: Washington was obsessed with debt. The Simpson-Bowles report was the talk of the town. Paul Ryan’s impassioned (and, of course, hypocritical) denunciations of federal debt won him media adulation and awards. And between the capital’s debt obsession, the Republican takeover of the House, and a hard right turn in state governments, America was about to embark on a period of cutbacks in government spending unprecedented in the face of high unemployment.Some of us protested bitterly against this policy turn, arguing that a period of mass unemployment was no time for fiscal austerity. And we were mostly right. Why only “mostly”? Because it’s becoming increasingly doubtful whether there’s any right time for fiscal austerity. The obsession with debt is looking foolish even at full employment.That’s the message I take from Olivier Blanchard’s presidential address to the American Economic Association. To be fair, Blanchard — one of the world’s leading macroeconomists, formerly the extremely influential chief economist of the I.M.F. — was cautious in his pronouncements, and certainly didn’t go all MMT and say that debt never matters. But his analysis nonetheless makes the Fix the Debt fixation (yes, they’re still out there) look even worse than before.Blanchard starts with the commonplace observation that interest rates on government debt are quite low, which in itself means that worries about debt are overblown. But he makes a more specific point: the average interest rate on debt is less than the economy’s growth rate (“r<g”). Moreover, this isn’t a temporary aberration: interest rates less than growth are actually the norm, broken only for a relatively short stretch in the 1980s.Why does this matter? There are actually two separate but related implications of low interest rates. First, fears of a runaway spiral of rising debt are based on a myth. Second, raising private investment shouldn’t be a huge priority.On the first point: Diatribes about debt often come with ominous warnings that debt may snowball over time. That is, high debt will mean high interest payments, which drive up deficits, leading to even more debt, which leads to even higher interest rates, and so on.But what matters for government solvency isn’t the absolute level of debt but its level relative to the tax base, which in turn basically corresponds to the size of the economy. And the dollar value of G.D.P. normally grows over time, due to both growth and inflation. Other things equal, this gradually melts the snowball: even if debt is rising in dollar terms, it will shrink as a percentage of G.D.P. if deficits aren’t too large.The classic example is what happened to U.S. debt from World War II. When and how did we pay it off? The answer is that we never did. Yet as Figure 1 shows, despite rising dollar debt, by 1970 growth and inflation had reduced the debt to an easily handled share of G.D.P.And if interest rates are less than G.D.P. growth, this effect means that debt tends to melt away of its own accord: a high debt level means higher interest payments, but it also means more melting, and the latter effect predominates. A self-reinforcing debt spiral just doesn’t happen.Blanchard’s second point is subtler but still important. In general, debt scolds warn not just about threats to government solvency but about growth. The claim is that high public debt feeds current consumption at the expense of investment for the future. And high debt does indeed probably have that effect when the economy is near full employment (although in 2010-2011 more deficit spending would have led to more, not less, private investment).But how important is it to suppress consumption to free up resources for investment? What Blanchard points out is that low interest rates are an indication that the private sector sees fairly low returns on investment, so that diverting more resources to private investment won’t make that much difference to growth. True, the rate of return on investment is surely higher than the interest rate on safe assets like U.S. Treasuries. But Blanchard makes the case that it’s not as much higher as many seem to think.Does this mean that we should eat, drink, be merry, and forget about the future? No — but private investment isn’t the big issue, since it probably doesn’t have a very high rate of return. Blanchard doesn’t say this, but what we should probably be worrying about instead is public investment in infrastructure, which has been neglected and suffers from obvious deficiencies.Yet the debt obsession led to less, not more, public investment. Figure 2 shows public construction spending as a percentage of G.D.P. It rose briefly during the Obama stimulus (partly because G.D.P. was down), then plunged to historically low levels, where it has stayed. For all the talk about taking care of future generations, debt scolds have almost surely hurt, not helped, our future prospects.Notice, by the way, that I haven’t even talked about business-cycle-related reasons to stop obsessing over debt. An environment of persistently low interest rates raises concerns about secular stagnation — a tendency to suffer repeated intractable slumps, because the Fed doesn’t have enough ammunition to fight them. And such slumps may reduce long-term growth as well: the experience since 2008 suggests a high degree of hysteresis, in which seemingly short-run downturns end up reducing long-run economic potential.But even without these concerns, debt looks like a hugely overblown issue, and the way debt displaced unemployment at the heart of public debate in 2010-2011 just keeps looking worse.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.After months of stock market declines, investment strategists are divided on appropriate responses.There is a range of possible approaches, none as simple as the kind of straightforward investing that can lead to immediate rewards when the market is consistently rising.Chris Brightman, chief investment officer at the investment advisory service Research Affiliates, for example, is currently unimpressed with most stocks.“We do advise our investors to hold lower allocations to global equities — particularly U.S. equities — than normal,” Mr. Brightman said. He urged broad diversification into such vehicles as Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, commodities and real estate investment trusts, as well as a tax-sheltered structure known as a master limited partnership. But he concedes that with “the exception of M.L.P.s,” all are expensively priced.Holding cash, in the form of a money-market fund, is another answer, but it is far from perfect, he said. “The problem with cash is you don’t make any money,” Mr. Brightman said. “It’s the safest place to keep your money, but you get zero real return.”Nick Kalivas, senior equity product strategist at Invesco, said it was worth at least “thinking about” tweaking a portfolio to fortify it against risk.He suggests funds that focus on stocks specifically selected because their fluctuations are low: They are known as low-volatility stocks, and they have outperformed the S&P 500 in 14 of the last 15 market downturns since 2011, according to Invesco.Four times a year, Invesco compiles a list of the lowest-volatility stocks in the S&P 500. These are the companies whose shares are least affected by market turbulence. The current list features Coca-Cola as the least-volatile equity, followed by two utilities, the WEC Energy Group and Duke Energy, according to Mr. Kalivas.Low-volatility stocks outperformed the market for most of 2018, according to Mo Haghbin, head of product research and development for Oppenheimer funds. Through December, portfolios of low-volatility stocks in the Oppenheimer Russell 1000 Dynamic Multifactor Exchange-Traded Fund lost 2.43 percent as opposed to the fund’s benchmark, the Russell 1000, which lost 4.78 percent, Mr. Haghbin said. High-quality companies — defined by superior grades on such metrics as return on assets, profits, margins and leverage — also outperformed, losing 2.68 percent.But investors who shift toward low-volatility portfolios should remember that such portfolios have historically lagged once the market turns up.Two low-volatility E.T.F.s that outperformed the S&P 500 in 2018 were: Hartford Multifactor Low Volatility US Equity E.T.F., which was basically flat, and Invesco S&P 500 Low Volatility E.T.F., which lost just over 2 percent. The S&P 500 was down 6.2 percent last year.Investors may also be wondering what to do about tech stocks, especially the Faangs (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google), which have been losing altitude rapidly after a seemingly endless ascent.Through December, Facebook and Netflix were both down over 35 percent from their highs of last year. Apple and Amazon were each off more than 25 percent from their 2018 highs.Although Kevin Landis is portfolio manager of the tech-focused Firsthand Technology Opportunities fund, he said he is wary of the big tech stocks. “When companies get bigger, they start looking more and more like government agencies,” he said. “Even the biggest opportunities are at the saturation point. There’s only so many iPhones you can sell.”With evidence of rising public concern about consumer privacy, Mr. Landis said, he expects to see greater regulation. “I spent the last 15 to 20 years being appalled at how readily people surrendered their own privacy,” he said. “I welcome the idea that they’ve become more aware.”Mr. Landis said there were still good values in smaller tech companies. One major holding is Roku, which hopes to lure consumers who subscribe to cable. He contrasted its market cap of under $4 billion with Netflix’s $111 billion market cap and said Roku was a better value.But many advisers say investors should simply hold tight. Brian McMahon, manager of the Thornburg Investment Income Builder mutual fund, said that in many ways, the recent downturn “is pretty normal. This is not something to panic about.” He said his largest investment, the CME Group, benefits from an active market. It makes good profits when people trade on options and futures contracts made on its platforms, he said. “CME Group benefits from volatility,” he said.In a similar vein, Kate Moore, chief equity strategist at BlackRock, said, “This is not a time to derisk and become completely defensive.” There are still “pockets of quality” in the volatile markets, she added, citing the Chinese tech sector as one example.But she said there were at least two major threats in the longer term. “We are increasingly concerned about long-term deficits and their impact on the bond market,” she said. Bonds, already pressured in the near term by Federal Reserve rate increases, could also face long-term rate pressure from the ballooning Treasury financing required by mounting budget deficits.Ms. Moore also said tech stocks could eventually lose value if new regulations were imposed to protect consumer privacy. “We don’t expect any major regulatory changes in 2019,” she said. “We certainly expect the government will impose regulations over the medium term.”Mr. Haghbin of Oppenheimer emphasized that portfolio decisions should reflect an investor’s view of the larger economy. “If an investor feels that growth will continue to slow and risk appetite continue to decline, historically he would emphasize high-quality and low-volatility companies.”But, as Mr. Haghbin warned, investors may need to be nimble. “Things can change very quickly,” he said.RICHMOND, Va. — A judge in Virginia reopened a more than two-year-old case on Wednesday to consider accusations that the powerful consultancy McKinsey & Company had defrauded his court while advising a bankrupt coal company.“These are some of the most serious allegations that I have ever seen,” said the judge, Kevin R. Huennekens of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, in Richmond.The decision to reopen the bankruptcy case of Alpha Natural Resources was the latest in a series of court actions and legislative maneuvers meant to examine whether McKinsey has failed to disclose investments in the entities it helps reorganize — an arrangement that could allow the company to profit off the plan it helped put in place. The request to reopen came from a retired turnaround specialist, Jay Alix, and was supported by the Justice Department’s Office of the United States Trustee.The federal bankruptcy code bars the professionals who work on bankruptcies from hiding their stakes, although possessing an interest in a company is not automatically disqualifying. The regulations require the disclosure of such connections between companies to ensure fair treatment of all parties.McKinsey has denied wrongdoing. “We continue to stand by our disclosures, which have always fully complied with the law, and we are confident that Alix’s fraud claims will be exposed as completely meritless,” the company said in a statement.McKinsey already faces similar claims of misconduct from Mr. Alix in the bankruptcy of another energy company, Westmoreland Coal, in Texas. And an examination by The New York Times revealed how the company is acting as an adviser in the bankruptcy-like restructuring of Puerto Rico while also holding some of the territory’s debt. A bipartisan group of lawmakers has proposed legislation that would strengthen the disclosure requirements in Puerto Rico’s case.Judge Huennekens did not indicate whether he thought there was any merit to the allegations involving Alpha Natural Resources, but said they were too grave to brush off.“We have to get to the bottom of this,” he said.Mr. Alix, who formed a small investment company that bought some of Alpha’s unsecured debt, has expressed concerns about McKinsey’s behavior in bankruptcies for several years.Mr. Alix alleged that there was “substantial, irrefutable evidence” that a McKinsey investment fund held an indirect stake in Alpha’s secured debt. He told the court he believed McKinsey had improperly reaped a profit of $50 million because it helped determine the way secured creditors were compensated.McKinsey made the investment through an outside hedge fund, Whitebox Advisors, which has been a creditor in several other bankruptcies where McKinsey played a role, as well as in Puerto Rico’s case.Judge Huennekens said he was especially troubled by Mr. Alix’s accusation that McKinsey did not tell him about its relationship with Whitebox, because McKinsey disclosed its business connections to the judge privately, rather than in open court.A lawyer for McKinsey, Jennifer Selendy, told the judge the omission was not intentional. She said the consulting firm believed it had provided all the information that Judge Huennekens had asked for. She said Mr. Alix was seizing upon innocent omissions and using them to make “wild accusations.”Judge Huennekens said McKinsey’s relationship with Whitebox still should have been disclosed, saying that it would have shone out at him “like a beacon.”The Office of the United States Trustee had also asked for the Alpha case to be reopened. The office filed a statement in court in November, saying that McKinsey had failed to comply to make “transparent, timely and accurate” disclosures of potential conflicts. The statement asked Judge Huennekens to order McKinsey to pay back roughly $20 million in fees it had received.The hearing Wednesday came a week after another bankruptcy judge, David R. Jones, told McKinsey and Mr. Alix that they should try to settle their dispute over Westmoreland Coal. If they didn’t, he said, he would also be compelled to investigate further. The United States Trustee is also urging the court to disqualify McKinsey in that case and make it forfeit the fees it has earned.Good Tuesday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Could venture capitalists make student debt obsolete?Silicon Valley is captivated by a new concept that could eliminate student debt, Andrew writes in his column.Students were saddled with $1.5 trillion in debt last year, a record high. An idea called Income Share Agreements has been talked about for years as a way to alleviate that burden. Under this system, tuition is free, but students agree to pay back a percentage of their income for several years if they get good jobs after graduation.Lambda School, an online learning start-up founded in 2017 with the backing of Y Combinator, has $30 million in funding today from venture capitalists to make the concept a reality.Andrew writes:The investments will be used to turn Lambda, which has focused on subjects like coding and data science, into a multidisciplinary school offering half-year programs in professions where there is significant hiring demand, like nursing and cybersecurity. It’s an expansion that could be a precursor to Lambda becoming a full-scale university.The Lambda model is being closely watched. It’s meant to treat students as investments rather than cash cows — and potentially lift their crippling debt load.But it also comes with risks.Programs seeking safe investments might reverse the strides made in expanding educational opportunities for higher-risk students; and institutions might move away from degrees that lead to noble, but lower compensated, professions.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________How China deepened its influence in MalaysiaSenior Chinese officials offered to bail out the troubled Malaysian government fund known as 1MDB in exchange for deals, a WSJ investigation found. Documents and interviews with current and former Malaysian officials show some of the political forces at work behind China’s One Belt, One Road infrastructure initiative and the country’s efforts to strengthen its position overseas.Five takeaways from the investigation:• In secret meetings, Chinese officials told Malaysian officials that China would try to fend off investigations by the U.S. and other countries into multibillion-dollar fraud accusations at the fund.• The Chinese also offered to bug the homes and offices of WSJ reporters in Hong Kong.• Malaysian officials suggested that some of the infrastructure projects be financed at above-market rates to generate cash for other needs.• In return, Malaysia offered lucrative stakes in railway and pipeline projects.• The infrastructure deals made Malaysia the second-biggest recipient of One Belt, One Road funding after Pakistan.SoftBank scales back its WeWork plansSoftBank is increasing its stake in WeWork, a bet on continued growth in co-working. But the investment is smaller than the one originally considered.The news: SoftBank is planning to invest $2 billion in WeWork, the leading co-working company, the NYT’s David Gelles reports. The money comes from the conglomerate itself, not from its nearly $100 billion Vision Fund. It values WeWork at $47 billion, and brings SoftBank’s total investment in the company to about $10.5 billion.What could have been: Under one possibility, SoftBank would have spent $10 billion to buy out all of WeWork’s other investors and injected $6 billion more in the company. Several factors led to a smaller deal, including market volatility and the reluctance of investors to sell shares to SoftBank.The back story: SoftBank, one of WeWork’s biggest boosters, has made multiple investments in the company. Much of its capital in WeWork is from the Vision Fund, which is largely backed by the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia. But the relationship between SoftBank and WeWork is under growing scrutiny.Carlos Ghosn comes to courtCarlos Ghosn, in his first public appearance since being arrested in November, declared today that he was innocent of the allegations of financial wrongdoing that led to his ouster from the vast Nissan, Renault and Mitsubishi automaking alliance.Handcuffed, with a rope around his waist and plastic slippers on his feet, Mr. Ghosn told a packed courtroom in Tokyo that he had “always acted with integrity.” He added:“I have been wrongly accused and unfairly detained based on meritless and unsubstantiated accusations.”Mr. Ghosn, 64, a celebrity in Japan since pulling Nissan back from the brink nearly two decades ago, was arrested on Nov. 19 after arriving in Tokyo on a corporate jet. In jail, he has not spoken to his family, who believe he is the victim of a corporate coup, and he can be visited only by diplomats or his Japanese lawyer.He is accused of underreporting millions in compensation and improperly transferring personal losses to Nissan’s books. Nissan and Mitsubishi removed him as chairman; he remains chairman and chief executive of Renault. Today, he said:“I never received any compensation from Nissan that was not disclosed, nor did I ever enter into any binding contract with Nissan to be paid a fixed amount that was not disclosed.”The gig economy is smaller than researchers thoughtIn 2016, a report from two respected Ivy League economists found that on-call, freelance or contract-to-contract work was reshaping the U.S. job market — a change driven forward in part by platforms like Uber and Task Rabbit.Alan Krueger of Princeton and Lawrence Katz of Harvard said then that the gig economy accounted for nearly 16 percent of American workers in 2015, up from 10.7 percent a decade earlier.But yesterday, Mr. Krueger and Mr. Katz walked back their estimate, saying that the nontraditional slice of the labor market probably went up only one or two percentage points. And such work still takes a back seat to the standard single-employer job, according to more recent evidence, including a study from the Labor Department released last year.Why the disparity? Mr. Krueger and Mr. Katz say that:• After the recession, the labor market was on shaky ground. Workers needed odd jobs to stay afloat. But rather than shifting permanently to gig work, they returned to more stable, long-term roles once the economy recovered.• This gray layer of the work force, where people hold multiple jobs and move fluidly and frequently between them, is difficult to track. Survey designs differ from study to study and are often flawed.Another day, another pharmaceutical dealThe drugmaking industry has seen a flurry of big moves recently:• Eli Lilly of Indianapolis said yesterday that it would shell out $8 billion in cash to purchase Loxo Oncology of Stamford, Conn., paying $235 per share, a 68 percent premium to Loxo’s closing price on Friday.• Takeda Pharmaceutical’s $62 billion purchase of Shire, an Irish biotechnology company focused on rare diseases, closed this week. The deal, by far the largest foreign takeover ever made by a Japanese firm, made the 237-year-old Takeda the world’s tenth-largest drugmaker by revenue.• Bristol-Myers Squibb said last week that it would buy Celgene, which makes the blockbuster Revlimid cancer medicine, for $74 billion.• GlaxoSmithKline said last month that it would pick up Tesaro, which makes an ovarian cancer drug, for $4.16 billion. In June, Eli Lilly closed a deal to buy Armo Biosciences and its immunotherapy cancer treatment for $1.6 billion.Revolving doorJim Yong Kim has unexpectedly resigned as president of the World Bank. He was scheduled to serve until 2022, and his departure, effective Feb. 1, sets up a succession tussle between the U.S., which traditionally wields heavy influence over the process, and other governments. The bank, which has focused on combating climate change and promoting foreign aid, has clashed with the Trump administration. (NYT)Mick Davis, a British politician and the former head of the Xstrata mining company, is setting up a new mining venture, Niron Metals, with a former executive at the De Beers diamond company and a Swiss investment manager. (FT)Nellie Liang, the Brookings fellow and former Federal Reserve economist nominated by President Trump for a seat on the Fed’s board of governors, withdrew her candidacy. (NYT)AstraZeneca, the British-Swedish drugmaker, hired Dr. José Baselga as its head of research and development in oncology. Dr. Baselga resigned in September as the chief medical officer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and later from the board of Bristol-Myers Squibb, after failing to disclose conflicts of interest. (NYT)Speed ReadsDeals• Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, an American buyout firm, will take a stake in the British catering operator WSH Investments in a deal that some see as an endorsement of the British economy ahead of a Brexit vote next week. (WSJ)• The nearly $2.4 billion sale of Rowan Cos., an offshore driller, to rival Ensco, may have hit a snag. One of Rowan’s largest shareholders, the hedge fund Canyon Capital Advisors, said it would vote against the deal. Crude oil prices in the U.S. have sunk more than 30 percent since the deal was announced. (Reuters)Tech• The incoming governor of Connecticut, Ned Lamont, promises new jobs, especially from start-ups. His wife, Annie Huntress Lamont, a leading venture capitalist with deep Silicon Valley connections, might help there. (NYT)• Two city councilors from Seattle, Amazon’s hometown, went to New York to urge politicians to think carefully about housing and transportation before the company establishes new offices. (Bloomberg)• Seven charts that suggest Tesla might be emerging from “production hell.” (Bloomberg)• Qualcomm’s share price reflects two big legal battles: its antitrust trial with the Federal Trade Commission, which continues this week, and its patent spats with Apple. (WSJ)• Amazon is losing popularity on Wall Street. Analysts have the lowest percentage of buy ratings on the company’s stock in 14 years. (CNBC)• Samsung said it expected a 29 percent decline in its fourth-quarter operating profit, severely disappointing analysts. The company cites “mounting macro uncertainties” and “lackluster demand” for its memory chips. (WSJ)• Intel is partnering with Facebook on an artificial intelligence chip for use in processes such as automatically tagging people in photos. (Reuters)Politics & Policy• President Trump plans a televised address on his border wall proposal tonight, and a trip to the border later this week, amid a government shutdown in which the $5.7 billion he demands for the project is a key sticking point. (NYT)• Former Vice President Joe Biden: Will he run? Could he win? (NYT)• The government shutdown will not, after all, delay tax refunds. (WSJ)• Financial companies are looking to move some $1 trillion of assets and more than 7,000 jobs from Britain to the rest of Europe to deal with Brexit uncertainty. (Bloomberg)• Gavin Newsom’s first act as governor of California was to direct state officials to set up a single-purchaser system for prescription drugs, potentially the largest in the country. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Hedge funds including Renaissance Technologies, Two Sigma, Citadel and DE Shaw joined Bridgewater in rising above a terrible year for their industry. (FT)• Morgan Stanley, Fidelity Investments and other financial heavyweights are backing a low-cost stock exchange called Members Exchange, or MEMX. (WSJ)• A new minimum wage of $15 an hour went into effect in New York on Jan. 1. But some cost-of-living calculations suggest it should be just under $33. (NYT)• The Middle East’s largest broadcaster, the Saudi-backed MBC Group, is expanding its video streaming service as part of Riyadh’s propaganda wars against Iran and Qatar. (FT)• The toymaker MGA Entertainment is suing Louis Vuitton’s parent company, the luxury giant LVMH, to ensure it can keep making Poopsie Pooey Puitton, a plastic purse filled with ingredients for “magical unicorn poop.” (WaPo)• The chief executive of Starbucks, Kevin Johnson, is aiming to revive sales by scaling back some initiatives of the company’s longtime leader Howard Schultz, including plans for upscale coffee shops. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Wednesday.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Exchange-traded funds became the next big thing in portfolio management a couple of decades ago by being cheaper and easier to trade than mutual funds.These days, some managers are offering E.T.F.s as tools for specialization at the expense of diversification, carving up the stock market into ever thinner slices for investors eager to find other next big things.E.T.F.s have evolved from covering only broad indexes, such as the S&P 500, to sectors like energy and health care, industries like homebuilding and gold mining, and lately to subsets of industries — niches within niches — often in ultracool areas like robotics, cybersecurity and video gaming that capture investors’ imaginations and then their money.While investment advisers occasionally use thematic funds when managing assets for their clients, they typically encourage small investors to avoid the practice, no matter how enticing it might be to try to find the next Amazon, Netflix or Google before it becomes a technological colossus.“We would prefer that someone build a portfolio around more diversified funds,” said Jason Browne, chief investment strategist of the FundX Investment Group, a firm that manages fund portfolios for high-net-worth individuals. He warned: “If you’re an average investor, you will probably look back and think this is something you were sold and not something thoughtfully invested in that’s aligned with your long-term goals.”Like Mr. Browne, Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic, a Morristown, N.J., financial-planning firm, said he sees more fund marketing than fund management at work with narrowly focused E.T.F.s.“It sort of reminds me of ‘The Graduate,’ when the guy takes Benjamin aside and says, ‘I’ve got one word: plastics,’” Mr. Cordaro said. Providers of these funds “are looking for things that sound good to people, then they give them an itch they’ll want to scratch.”Sam Masucci, chief executive of the ETF Managers Group, which manages about $3 billion across 12 thematic portfolios, said funds dedicated to such narrow market segments are especially dependent on investor demand and are introduced in areas experiencing a surge in popularity.His company’s thematic funds are a mix of actively managed and passively managed portfolios. In addition to cybersecurity and gaming funds, they cover some highly focused, even obscure, industries, including mobile payments and drone technology. And for anyone worried that all that cutting-edge technology will make human beings too efficient and productive, the company also offers the Alternative Harvest fund, which invests in companies involved in marijuana production.Anyone interested in these areas, despite admonitions like Mr. Browne’s, has several alternatives to choose from.A recent report on thematic E.T.F.s by Todd Rosenbluth, director of E.T.F. and mutual fund research at CFRA Research, highlighted two gaming funds — VanEck Vectors Video Gaming and eSports, and ETFMG Video Game Tech — and two that invest in cybersecurity: ETFMG Prime Cyber Security and First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity.The report also mentioned four that cover the burgeoning field of robotics: ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index, Global X Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, First Trust Nasdaq Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, and iShares Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.The performance of many of them last year illustrates the perils of owning an idea that would seem to have a lot of promise but so far has not delivered on it. The S&P 500 fell 6.2 percent last year, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, a benchmark for technology stocks, lost 3.9 percent. The ETFMG gaming fund lagged both indexes badly, losing 18.8 percent, while the VanEck gaming fund was down 12.6 percent just since its introduction in mid-October.The cybersecurity funds did much better. ETFMG Prime Security rose 6.5 percent in 2018, and the First Trust fund eked out a 1.3 percent gain.As for the robotics portfolios, their returns have been awful. None of the four came close to matching the Nasdaq index. Losses last year ranged between 14 percent and 29 percent.Because interest in these areas tends to come and go, Mr. Browne uses thematic E.T.F.s to carry out short-term asset allocation decisions. Haim Israel, head of thematic investing at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, by contrast, views several technologies covered by the E.T.F.s as long-term opportunities.The business and investment prospects associated with themes like Big Data, artificial intelligence, privacy and cyberthreats, the report said, will be helped by a “techceleration” resulting from the introduction of so-called 5G technology featuring much faster data transmission rates. The rollout of 5G “will bring about the fastest transformation in human history,” Mr. Israel predicted. The reduced time it will take to transmit data will help the spread of all sorts of technologies, like gaming or self-driving cars, he said.Mr. Israel’s analysis and outlook are plausible — for the world as it is today and for various technologies as they have developed so far. As for five years from now, who knows? Change, often radical and unforeseeable, is a hallmark of the sector, making most forecasts speculative at best. That is one of the main complaints that investment advisers have with thematic E.T.F.s.“We’ve been around long enough to see a lot of the ‘next big thing,’ said Leon LaBrecque, chief executive of LJPR Financial Advisors in Troy, Mich. “Remember Blockbuster or Boston Chicken? Anyone remember the first search engine? New tech becomes old tech.”For investors interested in taking a shot with thematic E.T.F.s, advisers suggest using risk capital, and then only small amounts of it.Mr. Masucci views thematic E.T.F.s as superior alternatives to buying individual stocks. These E.T.F.s “are a tax efficient, liquid, transparent way to give that exposure without relying on advisers’ ability to pick stocks,” he said.But Mr. Cordaro pointed to a conundrum that anyone contemplating investing in thematic E.T.F.s faces: “Because they can be riskier, you wouldn’t want them to be too much of your portfolio,” no more than 5 percent, he said. “The paradox is that’s not going to move the needle that much. You’re not going to make much money on it.”If you still want to try to move the needle, he advises doing it with funds that emphasize smaller, younger businesses that are pure plays in a particular niche and that don’t fill their portfolios with established companies that only dabble in fledgling technology.Mr. Rosenbluth noted in his report, for instance, that the VanEck and ETFMG gaming funds both hold the gaming stocks Activision and Electronic Arts, but only the ETFMG fund owns the larger, more diversified tech stocks Apple and Microsoft. By contrast, the ETFMG cybersecurity portfolio is more skewed toward smaller software companies than First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity, while the latter holds more in big defense companies like Raytheon than the ETFMG fund does.As for the robotics funds, the two with portfolios published on third-party sites like Morningstar’s, ROBO Global Robotics and Global X Robotics, each own big companies like Nvidia and Intuitive Surgical, and smaller ones like Helix Energy Solutions.In the end, the most effective way to invest in the next big thing may be to avoid trying to do it through thematic E.T.F.s at all.“Why even go for that ride is the question,” Mr. Browne said. When you own a diversified fund, “whatever drives the economy is going to be in your portfolio. It doesn’t rely on your or my predictions of what that’s going to be.”Mr. LaBrecque recommended a similarly broad, simple approach.“We can buy the S&P 500 and get the new FANGs,” a reference to Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, “and the next acronym of choice,” he said. “And we can get the companies that make all the stuff people buy on Amazon, and the cars people drive to the store to buy the food to eat while they watch Netflix. And when the next thing comes along, we can own that, as well.”SAN FRANCISCO — Vini Letteri, a managing director at KKR who invests in tech companies, had a slow 2018.Mr. Letteri, a venture capitalist who manages a $714 million fund, tried to put some of that money into 12 tech start-ups last year — but failed when they demanded too rich a price. In some cases, he said, his offers to invest were outbid by as much as 40 percent. The only investment he led in 2018 was a $360 million deal in OutSystems, a software company in Atlanta.So here’s what Mr. Letteri is not-so-secretly hoping for in 2019: a downturn in the private start-up market.“When the market turns, we’re prepared to be more aggressive,” he said. He added that he had sketched out a “downturn list” of 150 targets — including financial tech, cybersecurity, and consumer internet companies — in case they become cheaper.Mr. Letteri is one of a growing number of venture capitalists rooting for a market dip to calm the overheated start-up scene. For the past few years, Silicon Valley tech start-ups have been awash in a stream of cash that has allowed them to expand quickly and sell or go public at high valuations. Yet that drove up the costs of deal making for venture capitalists, who often prefer to invest in young companies at lower prices in the hopes of making a bigger return later.Now some of these investors may get their wish for a market decline. Stocks tumbled late last year, led by tech giants such as Facebook and Apple, amid fears of slowing economic growth and a trade war with China. And so far this year, the stock market has swung wildly, whipsawed by confusing signals including Apple’s disappointing iPhone sales in China and American employers adding more jobs than expected last month.While it takes time for choppiness in the stock market to ripple out into the start-up market, many venture investors are already preparing for a downturn. Some are setting aside money to pounce on investments and are preparing to write bigger checks with the expectation that new investors who flooded in in recent years will flee. And they are keeping closer tabs on companies that were too expensive to invest in last year.“We definitely want to take advantage of a market downturn,” said Sandy Miller, a venture capitalist at IVP who projects that start-up valuations will fall by 10 percent to 40 percent this year. He said his Silicon Valley venture firm has set aside “meaningful reserves” to do more deals and to put more money into companies it has already invested in, though he declined to specify an amount.Silicon Valley investors have long complained that start-up valuations have gotten too expensive, given that the start-up ecosystem has been on a bull run since at least 2015. That has minted an unprecedented number of “unicorn” start-ups, which are valued at more than $1 billion, including now-giant companies such as Uber and Airbnb.But the rising valuations have only continued to climb in the last year. In 2018, the median company valuation for one category of mature start-ups more than doubled to $420 million, up from $183 million in 2017, according to Carta, a provider of valuation software and services. And in a 2017 National Bureau of Economic Research study of 135 unicorn start-ups, researchers concluded the companies were overvalued by an average of 50 percent.“There’s too much heat around good, not necessarily great, companies” that are older, said Mamoon Hamid, a partner at the venture firm Kleiner Perkins. Even one “good, not great” company he recently met with had 13 investment offers, he said. The upshot: Kleiner did not invest.Greg Sands, a managing partner at Costanoa Ventures, said his venture firm walked away from three investments in 2018 where the price was 30 percent higher than he was willing to pay, an increase from past years. He also screened out numerous companies that were asking for more money than seemed reasonable — yet some of those companies then went on to raise triple that amount from other investors.“What’s happening right now isn’t sustainable and it won’t go on forever. It can’t,” he said. Costanoa raised a $75 million “opportunity fund,”, which Mr. Sands said would give it the ability to do more deals when the market cools down.Many other venture capital firms are also in a position to become more aggressive in case of a market downturn. Venture funds raised $30.2 billion in the first three quarters of last year, on track to surpass 2017’s total of $35.3 billion, according to PitchBook, a data provider.Start-up founders also appear to be preparing for a potential shift in fortunes. In a survey conducted late last year by First Round Capital, a venture capital firm, just under half of 529 entrepreneurs said they expected fund-raising to become more difficult in 2019. A third said they believed the tech bubble was close to popping, a 10-point increase over 2017.Some start-ups are raising more money to weather the uncertainty, according to Kirsten Green, a managing partner at Forerunner Ventures. Others are creating backup plans to cut costs so their survival won’t depend on new funding.Not all venture capitalists want a downturn, especially if it will throw a wrench into the plans of some of the biggest unicorns — such as Uber, Lyft, Pinterest and Slack — to go public. Many investors are eager to cash out of those companies when they stage an initial public offering.“You always want a better market,” said Micah Rosenbloom, a managing partner at Founder Collective, which was an early investor in Uber. “In a crisis, everything gets hard. You’d rather have your companies in good times for everything from hiring to sales.”Still, Mr. Rosenbloom said he also saw opportunity in a downturn. His firm’s two most successful investments — Uber and the Trade Desk, a digital advertising company — were created in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.In previous downturns, the less serious entrepreneurs disappeared, leaving the most committed ones, said David Pakman, a partner at venture firm Venrock. “During those periods, some incredible companies were founded by highly determined entrepreneurs,” he said. “The cream rose to the top.”China’s railway operator says heavy investment in its railway network will continue in 2019, which experts say will help stabilize investment and counter slowing economic growth.Although China Railway Corp. did not specify the amount of investment for 2019, it planned to put a total of 4,225 miles of new tracks, including about 2,000 miles of high-speed lines, into operation — more than last year — the company said at its annual conference on Jan. 2.China spent about 803 billion yuan ($116.8 billion) on railway projects and put 2,910 miles of new track into operation last year, of which 2,547 miles were for high-speed trains.At the end of the year the total length of China’s high-speed railways rose to 18,020 miles, more than two-thirds of the world’s total, it said.With the new high-speed lines to be put into operation in 2019, China will reach its goal of building a 18,640-mile high-speed rail network one year ahead of schedule.“Double-digit growth of fixed-asset investment is already a thing of the past that we can’t go back to,” said Yu Yongding, director of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. “Spending on railway infrastructure will remain strong under the long-term construction plan and it will help sustain the level of national investment and boost the economy.”Lu Dongfu, general manager of CRC, said China has the world’s most advanced railway network and the most developed high-speed network, but there is still a major problem in that it is unevenly distributed.Areas of weakness in railway construction in former revolutionary base areas, remote and border areas and poverty-stricken areas in the central and western regions need to be bolstered, and a number of major projects such as the Sichuan-Tibet railway need to be speeded up to improve the railway network, he said.The 1,060-mile Sichuan-Tibet railway is planned to run from Chengdu, Sichuan province, through Ya’an and Kangding, and then enter the Tibet autonomous region via Qamdo and Nyingchi before finally arriving in Lhasa.As the second railway into Tibet after the Qinghai-Tibet railway, the Sichuan-Tibet railway will go through the southeast of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, one of the world’s most geologically active areas.Construction began in 2014 on two easier parts of the line — between Lhasa and Nyingchi, and between Chengdu and Ya’an — but the Nyingchi-Ya’an section goes through a complicated area fraught with avalanches, landslides, earthquakes, heat, karst caves and underground streams. The Chengdu-Ya’an high-speed railway started operation recently.CRC said it will complete the feasibility study of the section by June and be ready for construction by the end of September.Once the Sichuan-Tibet railway is completed, it will only take 13 hours to travel to Lhasa from Chengdu, Chongqing or Xi’an.Tests of an automated high-speed system were carried out successfully on railways linking Beijing and Shenyang, Liaoning province, from July to September, with total trial mileage of more than 115,000 miles.As the era of automated high-speed trains approaches, China’s core technologies and products are all domestically made, said Lu.An expert with the China Academy of Railway Sciences Corp. told Science and Technology Daily: “The use of automatic train operations in lieu of manual driving has become a reality. Many subways already include automatic operation.” CRC put the system into operation in the Dongguan-Huizhou and Foshan-Zhaoqing intercity railways in Guangdong province, with speeds of 125 miles an hour, a world first, he said.Using the system, the train can automatically start, run between stations, adjust its timing according to the schedule, accurately stop at a station and open and close its doors, which increases operating efficiency and avoids congestion, delays and accidents, the expert said.The system will be put into operation in 2022 on the railway line that will link Beijing and Zhangjiakou, Hebei province, host cities of the 2022 Winter Olympics.Wang KejuVacation rental properties can be a solid investment, depending on the location. To help potential buyers decide where to invest, Vacasa, a vacation rental property management company, crunched data on about a half-million rental properties in popular winter destinations in the United States. The top 10 most profitable locations listed below are ranked by capitalization rate, or cap rate, a metric used to determine the profitability of rental properties.Cap rate is calculated by comparing a home’s sale price to what is left of the annual rental revenue after expenses are met. For example, if a home sold for $100,000 and there was $1,000 left at the end of the year after expenses, the cap rate would be 1 percent. The more money in your pocket at the end of the year, the higher the cap rate.The cap-rate equation, however, does not include mortgage costs. So it is most useful to investors who can buy a home outright. But even if you factor a mortgage into the calculations — a 30-year, fixed-rate loan at 4.58 percent, say, with a 25 percent down payment — most of the places on the following list were still very profitable, Vacasa found.Andrea Orcel is Europe’s most famous investment banker, a suave, brash and fabulously wealthy dealmaker who counts many of the Continent’s chief executives as his longtime clients.Last fall, he agreed to become one of those C.E.O.s. He accepted a job running the day-to-day operations of Banco Santander, a sprawling European and American lender whose ruling Botín family is one of Mr. Orcel’s oldest patrons.On Tuesday, that deal unraveled — doomed by an extraordinary public spat over who would pay Mr. Orcel the more than $50 million in deferred compensation he was owed by his previous employer, the Swiss bank UBS. It leaves Mr. Orcel without a job and leaves his once-high-flying career in limbo.Mr. Orcel, who did not respond to requests for comment, was scheduled to become Santander’s chief executive early this year, working hand in hand with the bank’s executive chairwoman, Ana Patricia Botín. Mr. Orcel had spent the past seven years at UBS, heading investment banking, but resigned after Santander said it was hiring him.Ms. Botín said in a statement on Tuesday that the bank had underestimated how much it would cost to hire him. She said Santander had to “balance the respect we have for all of our stakeholders — the millions of people, customers and shareholders we serve — with the very significant cost of hiring one individual, even one as talented as Andrea.”At a time when executive compensation is under growing scrutiny all over the world, Santander’s decision represents perhaps the highest-profile instance of a corporation rescinding a job offer because it was worried about the blowback from a rich payday.If it had gone ahead, Santander would have had to seek shareholder approval for Mr. Orcel’s compensation package. Senior executives feared that its eight-figure size would spark an investor uproar, especially among the bank’s large contingent of individual stockholders, according to a person familiar with executives’ thinking.A native of Rome, Mr. Orcel spent decades building a long list of boardroom contacts, especially in Southern Europe. He orchestrated some of the world’s biggest corporate transactions. He even looks like an investment banker out of central casting: He wears tailor-made shirts, suits and silk ties; his salt-and-pepper hair is impeccably groomed; and he sprinkles his speech with references to luxury brands.One of his closest relationships was with Emilio Botín, the Santander patriarch and Ms. Botín’s father. Mr. Orcel spent more than 20 years as one of Mr. Botín’s most trusted advisers as he built Santander into a global bank with acquisitions in Spain, elsewhere in Europe and in the United States. When Mr. Botín died in 2014, Mr. Orcel hailed him as “one of the most important global banking leaders in a generation.”Mr. Orcel’s most famous — or infamous — deal was the 2007 sale of the Dutch bank ABN Amro to Royal Bank of Scotland and other banks. Mr. Orcel at the time was a senior investment banker at Merrill Lynch, and he helped shape the roughly $100 billion transaction on the eve of the financial crisis. It ended up saddling some of its acquirers with crippling losses that necessitated government bailouts. Among the only winners in that transaction was Santander, which bought ABN’s Italian operation for less than $10 billion and then, months later, sold it to another bank for more than $13 billion.In 2012, UBS hired Mr. Orcel to help overhaul its beleaguered investment bank. It was an expensive hire; the Swiss bank paid $26 million to make up for deferred compensation Mr. Orcel forfeited by leaving Merrill.At UBS, Mr. Orcel was greeted warily. Within months, he elbowed out his partner and became the sole head of investment banking. His colleagues at UBS were awe-struck by Mr. Orcel’s rainmaking but were less impressed with his sometimes-brusque management style.When Santander announced it was hiring Mr. Orcel last September, analysts said the move could augur another round of acquisitions by the Spanish bank.UBS, however, was not thrilled to lose a top executive. The Swiss bank enforced a provision in Mr. Orcel’s contract that required him to take a six-month break, known as gardening leave, before defecting to a rival business. The move angered Santander executives, who viewed the maneuver as a needless jab at a longtime client of UBS.But money turned out to be the bigger problem.During his seven years at UBS, Mr. Orcel racked up well over $50 million in deferred compensation, which the bank promised to pay him in the coming years.When Santander hired Mr. Orcel, it agreed to pay him whatever amount UBS didn’t. Santander executives and board members figured that UBS would pay most of the deferred compensation and that Santander’s share would be relatively small, according to people familiar with Santander’s deliberations.UBS, however, balked. After months of negotiations, executives at the Swiss bank informed Santander last week that they would not pay anything.“This is a matter between Andrea Orcel and Santander,” said Dominik von Arx, a UBS spokesman. “UBS applied the compensation plan rules relevant in such cases and made them transparent to all parties before any decisions were made.”That left Santander and Mr. Orcel with a choice. Either he could waive some of his deferred pay, or Santander could make him whole.Mr. Orcel wouldn’t give up the money.Santander wouldn’t pay.“What UBS did is quite predictable,” said C. Evan Stewart, a partner at the law firm Cohen & Gresser who specializes in financial services, “and it’s surprising that Mr. Orcel thought that they would just sit back and give him his deferred compensation.”John C. Bogle, who died on Wednesday, is widely seen as having changed how ordinary people invest their money. His firm, the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies, which grew to have $4.9 trillion under management, was built on a belief that, over the long term, most investment managers cannot outperform the broad stock market averages. “Jack Bogle made an impact on not only the entire investment industry, but more importantly, on the lives of countless individuals saving for their futures or their children’s futures,” Tim Buckley, Vanguard’s chief executive, said in a statement. Here are some of Mr. Bogle’s investment tips: 1. Stay the course“Wise investors won’t try to outsmart the market,” he says. “They’ll buy index funds for the long term, and they’ll diversify.” Long-term investors must hold stocks even though the market is risky, because they are still likely to produce better returns than the alternatives, Mr. Bogle said in 2012. Investors should weather any storms, he told The Wall Street Journal in 2016.“If we’re going to have lower returns, well, the worst thing you can do is reach for more yield. You just have to save more.” 2. Beware the experts Money managers missed all the warning signs before the 2008 financial crisis, Mr. Bogle noted: “How could so many highly skilled, highly paid securities analysts and researchers have failed to question the toxic-filled, leveraged balance sheets of Citigroup and other leading banks and investment banks?”In 2017, he waved younger investors away from financial advisers and gave his approval to robo-advisers. “Unless you need a financial adviser to help you get started in that routine, you probably don't need a financial adviser at all,” he told CNBC. 3. Keep costs down Vanguard’s fund shareholders own it collectively, so there is no parent company or private owner to siphon profit, allowing the firm to keep costs down. “In investing, you get what you don’t pay for. Costs matter. So intelligent investors will use low-cost index funds to build a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds, and they will stay the course. And they won’t be foolish enough to think that they can consistently outsmart the market.” Mr. Bogle became a harsh critic in his later years of the mutual fund industry and the high fees charged to investors for stock-picking expertise. 4. Don’t get emotional Invest in a diverse selection of stocks and bonds, trust in the arithmetic and stick to it — this was the essence of Mr. Bogle’s advice for Vanguard investors. “Impulse is your enemy,” was one of the mantras. “Eliminate emotion from your investment program. Have rational expectations for future returns and avoid changing those expectations in response to the ephemeral noise coming from Wall Street.” 5. Own the entire stock market Mr. Bogle was the leading proponent of structuring an investment portfolio to mirror the performance of a market yardstick, like the S&P 500 stock index. “The S&P 500 is a great proxy,” Mr. Bogle told The Wall Street Journal last year, adding that he hadn’t bought an individual stock in about 25 years. Mr. Bogle also told CNBC that the United States market was a safer bet than other markets. “U.S. companies are innovative and entrepreneurial,” he said. Cassandra Leigh Siegel and Alex Harrison Neubauer were married Jan. 12 at the Pierre Hotel in New York. Rabbi Peter J. Rubinstein, a friend of the bride's family, officiated.Mrs. Neubauer, 29, is finishing her final year at N.Y.U. School of Law, and has accepted an offer to work in the real estate transactional group at Kasowitz Benson Torres, a law firm in New York, following graduation and the bar examination. She graduated from Dartmouth.She is the daughter of Wendy M. Siegel and Stephen B. Siegel of New York. The bride’s father is a partner in Fairstead, a real estate investment and development firm in New York. He also works in New York as the chairman of global brokerage at CBRE, a commercial real estate services and investment firm based in Los Angeles. Her mother volunteers for Gift of Life Marrow Registry and the bride’s parents are chairs for the national board of trustees for National Jewish Health.Mr. Neubauer, 28, is an associate in the underwriting group at Ladder Capital, a real estate finance and investment firm in New York. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.He is a son of Anita Neubauer and Jeffrey S. Neubauer of Springfield, N.J. The groom’s father is the owner and president of U.S. & Overseas Agencies, an insurance company in Union, N.J., of which his wife serves as an officer.The couple met through a mutual friend in New York in 2014.The other day I issued a warning about the Chinese economy. It is, I wrote, “emerging as a danger spot in a world economy that really, really doesn’t need this right now.”Unfortunately, the other day was more than 6 years ago. And it’s not just me. Many people have been predicting a China crisis for a long time, and it has kept on not happening.But now China seems to be stumbling again. Is this the moment when all the prophecies of big trouble in big China finally come true? Honestly, I have no idea.On one side, China’s problems are real. On the other, the Chinese government – hindered neither by rigid ideology nor by anything resembling a democratic political process – has repeatedly shown its ability and willingness to do whatever it takes to prop up its economy. It’s really anyone’s guess whether this time will be different, or whether Xi-who-must-be-obeyed can pull out another recovery.But maybe this is another example of Dornbusch’s Law, named after my old teacher Rudi Dornbusch: The crisis takes a much longer time coming than you think, and then it happens much faster than you would have thought. So it seems useful to summarize why people have been worried about China, and why China’s troubles are a problem for the rest of the world.The fundamental problem with the Chinese economy is that it’s highly unbalanced: It has extremely high levels of investment, seemingly without enough domestic consumption to justify that investment. You might be tempted to say this doesn’t matter, that China can just export its surplus production to other countries. But while there was a period from the mid-2000s to the early 2010s when China ran huge trade surpluses, those days are past.Figure 1 shows Chinese investment (left scale) and its current account balance (a broad measure of the trade balance, right scale), both as percentages of GDP. That investment number is huge by anyone’s standards; it’s hard to see how companies can avoid running into strongly diminishing returns.It’s true that very high investment can be sustained for a long time in a rapidly growing economy (the so-called accelerator effect.) And China has indeed achieved incredible growth. But the potential for future growth is falling, for a couple of reasons. One is that as Chinese technology converges on that of advanced countries, the room for rapid improvement through borrowing declines. The other is that China’s one-child policy has produced demography that looks a lot like Europe or Japan. Figure 2 shows China’s working-age population, which has stopped growing.So China really can’t keep investing 40-plus percent of GDP. It needs to shift over to higher consumption, which it could do by returning more profits from state-owned enterprises to the public, strengthening the social safety net, and so on. But it keeps not doing that.Instead, the Chinese government has been piling on loans to businesses and state-owned enterprises, pushing the SOEs to spend more, and so on. Basically it has kept investment going despite low returns. Yet this process has to have some limits – and when it hits the (great) wall, it’s hard to see how consumption can rise fast enough to take up the slack.However, if this sounds like a compelling case, bear in mind that it’s the same case I and others made in 2011. So apply appropriate skepticism.What are the global consequences if China does get into trouble? The important thing to realize here is that China no longer runs huge trade surpluses with the world as a whole (the U.S. bilateral deficit is exceptional and deceptive.) And as a result China has become a major market. Figure 3 shows China’s imports from other countries as a percentage of world GDP; they’ve gotten quite big. For another perspective, in 2017 Chinese imports were $2.2 trillion, compared with $2.9 trillion for the US; they’re almost as much of a locomotive for the world economy as we are.ImageFigure 3CreditWorld Bank, IMFWhat this means is that a Chinese stumble would hit the world economy pretty hard, with special damage to commodity exporters (including U.S. farmers).In other words, there are scary things out there besides Trump and Brexit.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.John C. Bogle, who founded the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies in 1974 and built it into a giant mutual fund company, with $4.9 trillion in assets under management today, died on Wednesday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 89.His personal assistant, Michael Nolan, said the cause was esophageal cancer. Mr. Bogle, who had struggled with a congenital heart defect and had several heart attacks, received a heart transplant in 1996.Mr. Bogle built Vanguard, which is based in Malvern, Pa., on a cornerstone belief that was anathema to most mutual fund companies: that over the long term, most investment managers cannot outperform the broad market averages. He popularized and became the leading proponent of indexing, the practice of structuring an investment portfolio to mirror the performance of a market yardstick, like the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index.“Indexing was the purview of institutional investors, but Jack Bogle came up with the consumer version,” said Daniel P. Wiener, the editor of The Independent Adviser for Vanguard Investors, a newsletter and website that has tracked the company for decades. “He made people aware of expenses, and told them that costs come right out of the bottom line.”But Mr. Bogle became a harsh critic of the mutual fund industry in later years. In the second half of the 1990s, he said, stock market investors were spoiled by average annual returns of more than 20 percent per year and, as a result, cared too little about the high expenses they were paying to mutual fund managers for those managers’ presumed expertise at picking stocks. Mutual fund companies, he said, were all but immoral for accepting such fees.“My ideas are very simple,” he told the financial columnist Jeff Sommer of The New York Times in 2012. “In investing, you get what you  don’t pay for. Costs matter. So intelligent investors will use low-cost index funds to build a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds, and they will stay the course. And they won’t be foolish enough to think that they can consistently outsmart the market.”In recent years it has been hard to argue with that. Since 1984, less than half of the actively managed mutual funds that invest in a broad array of American stocks have outperformed the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, one of the world’s largest, with more than $441 billion in assets under management, according to Vanguard.Vanguard’s advantage came from the unusual corporate structure that Mr. Bogle adopted. Vanguard managed its indexed mutual funds at cost, charging investors fees that were far lower than those of virtually all of its rivals.Mr. Bogle also went a step further in differentiating Vanguard from other companies that sponsor mutual funds. In contrast to a management company, which in most cases controls the fund complex and provides all the investment, administrative and marketing services required in its operations, Vanguard is more like a mutual insurer, owned by investors in the funds, which employ their own officers and staff. Those employees are responsible to the funds’ directors.Mr. Bogle argued that Vanguard funds were thus completely independent of their advisers and operated solely in the interests of shareholders — able to monitor investment results objectively, negotiate advisory fees at “arm’s length” and change advisers if need be.“John Bogle has changed a basic industry in the optimal direction,” Paul A. Samuelson, the 1970 Nobel laureate in economics, wrote in a foreword to “Bogle on Mutual Funds” (1993). “Of very few this can be said.”The superior performance of the Vanguard funds attracted investors and assets in droves. In the last three years of the 1990s, Vanguard received more new money from investors than the next three largest fund companies combined.Vanguard’s consistent growth produced riches for Mr. Bogle, but not to the extent that another ownership structure might have done. For example, Edward C. Johnson III, the chairman of Fidelity Investments, has a net worth of $7.4 billion, according to Forbes. Mr. Bogle’s net worth was generally estimated at $80 million last year.Most fund companies spend huge sums to attract new customers. But Mr. Bogle eschewed the product- and marketing-driven thinking of much of the industry that has spread with the boom in mutual fund sales this decade.“We’re never allowed to use the word ‘product,’” he told an interviewer in 1995. “It sounds like toothpaste and beer.”His reputation as a tightwad was well earned. At breakfast with a reporter in 1993, at a suburban Philadelphia restaurant near Vanguard’s headquarters, Mr. Bogle figured out that he would beat the $5.95 cost of the buffet by ordering from the menu. If he had an early-morning meeting in New York, he would take the early Amtrak Metroliner shuttle rather than pay for a hotel room in Manhattan.Image“John Bogle has changed a basic industry in the optimal direction,” the Nobel laureate Paul A. Samuelson wrote in a foreword to Mr. Bogle’s book “Bogle on Mutual Funds,” published in 1993.Mr. Bogle readily took swipes at the press for lauding fund managers who temporarily got a hot hand, and for focusing heavily on a fund’s quarterly performance. Even a fund manager’s long-term record is not an accurate predictor of future performance, he said.It was that combative nature that had led him to start Vanguard in the first place.After graduating magna cum laude from Princeton in 1951 with an economics degree, Mr. Bogle was hired by Walter L. Morgan, founder of the Wellington Fund, a Philadelphia-based fund management company. Mr. Morgan had read Mr. Bogle’s senior thesis on mutual funds.While working his way up at Wellington, Mr. Bogle persuaded Mr. Morgan to introduce a new all-equity fund, called the Windsor Fund, to complement Wellington, which invested in both stocks and bonds.Mr. Bogle was named president of Wellington in 1967, and soon thereafter it merged with the Boston investment company Thorndike, Doran, Paine & Lewis. Several years later, a management dispute with the principals of the new company led Mr. Bogle to depart; he founded Vanguard in 1974 to handle the administrative functions of the mutual funds overseen by Wellington Management.Two years later, Mr. Bogle founded the First Index Investment Trust, later called the Vanguard Index Trust, now known as the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, the first index fund for individual investors. The next year he again broke from industry practice, selling mutual funds directly to investors rather than through brokers, and thus eliminating the sales fees of up to 9 percent that funds typically charged.“Our challenge at the time was to build, out of the ashes of a major corporate conflict, a new and better way of running a mutual fund complex,” Mr. Bogle said in 1985.He officially stepped down as chief executive of Vanguard in January 1996 and remained as chairman until the end of 1999. Tim Buckley is the current chief executive.Mr. Bogle’s retirement did not come easily. After giving up the chief executive title to his handpicked successor, John J. Brennan, Mr. Bogle openly disagreed with several of Mr. Brennan’s decisions. A rift developed between them, which contributed to Mr. Bogle’s failure to persuade Vanguard’s board of directors to allow him to stay on past the traditional retirement age of 70.“I thought there would be an exception for the company’s founder,” he said in 2012. Vanguard veterans say that Mr. Bogle and Mr. Brennan barely spoke, if at all, in the years afterward.Mr. Bogle left the Vanguard board and set up the Bogle Financial Markets Research Center, a financial research institute, in order, he said, to “let the controversy die away in a gracious way.”Mr. Brennan was succeeded by F. William McNabb III, who told Mr. Sommer in 2012 that people at Vanguard “revere Jack Bogle.”John Clifton Bogle was born in Montclair, N.J., on May 8, 1929. A twin brother, David, died in 1994.Mr. Bogle graduated from Blair Academy in Blairstown, N.J., and, in 1951, from Princeton; he was a scholarship student at both.Mr. Bogle was treated for arrythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, a congenital heart defect, for more than 30 years, and had at least six heart attacks, the first in 1960. After his heart transplant in 1996, he returned to good enough health that he was able to play squash daily.Mr. Bogle served on the board of the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, from 1969 to 1974, and as its chairman from 1969 to 1970. In 1991, he was named by the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Richard C. Breeden, to the Market Oversight and Financial Services Advisory Committee.In addition to “Bogle on Mutual Funds,” his other books include “Common Sense on Mutual Funds” (1999) and “The Clash of the Cultures: Investment vs. Speculation” (2012).Mr. Bogle married Eve Sherrerd in 1956. She survives him, as do a brother, William Yates Bogle III; four daughters, Barbara Bogle Renninger, Jean Bogle, Nancy Bogle St. John and Sandra Bogle Marucci; two sons, John Jr. and Andrew; 12 grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.Mr. Bogle regularly gave half his salary to charities.“My only regret about money,” he said in 2012, “is that I don’t have more to give away.”MANILA — Henry Sy, a tycoon known as the “father of modern Philippine retail,” whose chain of super malls changed the country’s retail landscape, died on Saturday in Manila. He was 94.His company, SM Investments Corporation, announced the death.For the last 11 years, Forbes had named Mr. Sy the richest person in the Philippines. His net worth was estimated as $19 billion.Mr. Sy opened the first ShoeMart in 1958 after a stint selling surplus boots. It later became known simply as SM.From a tiny shop in downtown Manila, SM grew into a behemoth, with 62 department stores, 56 supermarkets and more than 200 smaller grocery stores. SM had revenues of $6.7 billion in 2016. The chain also operates six malls in China.“He was the father of the competitive Philippine retail industry,” said Astro del Castillo, a business analyst and managing director of First Grade Finance. “He really rose from the ranks, from being just an ordinary businessman to becoming one of the most well-known in Asia and the world.”Born in Fujian, China, on Oct. 25, 1924, Henry Tan Chi Sieng Sy moved with his family to the Philippines in search of a better life when he was 12. His father operated a small store selling a variety of wares, but World War II left the family with nothing when Manila was destroyed.At his father’s shop, Mr. Sy helped sell rice, sardines and other household merchandise. When his family decided to return to China, he stayed behind to pursue a business degree at  Far Eastern University in Manila. He graduated in 1950.After years of struggling, Mr. Sy opened his first shop in 1958. It was the beginning of an empire that would diversify into banks, property development and allied businesses.In 1972, he opened the first SM department store in the downtown Quiapo district. That same year the dictator Ferdinand Marcos declared martial law, plunging the country into two decades of brutal rule.At his death, Mr. Sy was chairman emeritus of SM Investments.In 2006, he opened the SM Mall of Asia, his flagship mall, which houses more than 800 shops and an Olympic-size ice-skating rink. Thousands of people visit the mall every day, and it has become a major tourist attraction.SM Investments’ empire includes SM Retail Inc., which operates the country’s largest supermarkets and department-store chains, and SM Prime Holdings Inc., a huge mall operator. It also includes Banco de Oro, now known as BDO Unibank.Mr. Sy is survived by his wife, Felicidad Tan-Sy; six children, Teresita Sy-Coson, Elizabeth Sy, Henry Jr., Hans, Herbert and Harley; and several grandchildren.His elder daughter, Ms. Sy-Coson, and Henry Sy Jr. are vice chairwoman and vice chairman of SM Investments. His son Harley is executive director. Mr. Sy had tapped his longtime protégé, Jose Sio, as the new chairman of the group.Mr. Sy was also a philanthropist. His charitable foundation contributed to universities and education.Harley Sy once described his father as not just a dreamer but also as a “doer” who valued maintaining a “simple life” and helping the less fortunate.He once summed up the arc of his life: “I started with shoes, and with hard work and discipline, the business prospered.”Sears lives. For now.The bankrupt retailer and its chairman, Edward S. Lampert, have reached a $5.3 billion deal that would keep its 425 stores open and its 50,000 employees at work, according to a person familiar with the situation.In the deal, which was reached in the early hours on Wednesday, Mr. Lampert would acquire most of Sears’s assets, the person said. The final details of the sale still needed to be arranged, and negotiations continued through the day.Mr. Lampert, a hedge fund manager, was the only bidder at a closed-door auction this week who sought to keep the company operating. All of the competing bidders planned to liquidate the company’s real estate, inventory and brands.A federal bankruptcy judge must still approve Mr. Lampert’s bid, giving the company’s creditors a chance to derail the deal. Last week, the bankruptcy judge, Robert D. Drain, said Mr. Lampert’s bid was “a good development” because it offered Sears a shot at survival.If the deal is approved, Sears will emerge from bankruptcy with less debt, but it will still face steep odds in winning back shoppers. Mr. Lampert is deepening his investment in Sears at a time of great uncertainty for old-line retailers. While overall consumer spending has been solid, some retailers like Macy’s and J. C. Penney reported weak holiday sales, signaling that their turnaround plans are floundering as Americans change the way they shop.[Read more about what led Sears to file for bankruptcy.]Founded shortly after the Civil War, Sears was once the nation’s largest retailer. But it has been in a precipitous decline for years, losing ground to Amazon and Walmart as consumers moved their spending online and mall-based chains suffered.It is unclear how Mr. Lampert plans to turn Sears around. The company filed for bankruptcy in October, as its sales stalled and its debt payments mounted.Mr. Lampert, who took control of Sears in 2005 when it merged with Kmart, was the company’s largest shareholder and lender through his hedge fund, ESL Investments.Some creditors have criticized Mr. Lampert for making deals, including selling some of the company’s most valuable real estate and the Lands’ End brand, that have benefited his hedge fund while harming Sears in the long run.Mr. Lampert has countered those arguments by saying in interviews that his investments in Sears have hurt him financially.Even without Mr. Lampert’s financial engineering, analysts acknowledge that Sears would still probably struggle to compete against more innovative retailers with greater resources.Sarah Marybelle Weiss and Rachel Sietz are to be married Jan. 20 at the Temple Beth Sholom in Cherry Hill, N.J. Rabbi Micah Peltz is to perform the ceremony.Ms. Sietz, 30, is a taxonomist for Sears Holdings Corporation in Chicago, where she works on the classification and organization of products in the digital marketplace for Sears and Kmart.com. She graduated from Smith College and received a master's degree in library and information sciences from Simmons College.She is the daughter of Gilah L. Sietz and Brian S. Sietz of Cherry Hill, N.J. Ms. Sietz’s father is a lead network engineer at ASRC Federal in Moorsetown, N.J. Her mother teaches Judaism to adults and high school students in South Jersey. The bride is the maternal granddaughter of the late Rabbi Albert Lewis, who served as the president of the Rabbinical Assembly from 1988 to 1990. Rabbi Lewis was also the subject of the book "Have a Little Faith" (2009) by Mitch Albom.In July, Ms. Weiss, also 30, is to become an associate in the New York office of Evercore, an investment bank, where she will specialize in mergers and acquisitions. She is currently studying for an M.B.A. at the University of Chicago. She graduated from Columbia.She is the daughter Janis G. Weiss of Woodland Hills, Calif. and the late John D. Weiss. Ms. Weiss’s father was an employment lawyer, mediator and arbitrator in private practice in Los Angeles. Her mother co-managed the real estate and investment portfolio of her late father.The couple met in 2014, through a mutual friend in New York.LONDON — When new employees join Huawei, they are given books about the Chinese telecommunications company’s achievements. One featured accomplishment is how the company has thrived in Europe.A chapter in one of the books describes the hard work of Huawei employees to win over European telecom providers and sell them equipment that forms the backbone of mobile wireless networks. It says little about how the company has also subtly lobbied, promised jobs and made research investments to ingratiate itself with European governments over the last 15 years.In Britain, for example, Huawei set up a special corporate board, led by John Browne, a former chief executive of the oil giant BP. It donated to schools, including Cambridge University; held parties for political leaders; and sponsored prominent charities like the Prince’s Trust, founded by Prince Charles. In Germany, Huawei opened facilities to conduct research on new innovations and sponsored events, including the recent convention of Germany’s governing Christian Democratic Union party.European governments have been welcoming. Last year, after Huawei announced a five-year commitment to spend 3 billion pounds, or about $3.8 billion, to expand in Britain, where the company employs 1,500 workers, Prime Minister Theresa May met in Beijing with Sun Yafang, Huawei’s chairwoman. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany posed for pictures at the company’s booth at a trade show last year.Yet despite the careful cultivation, Huawei’s position in Europe is now at risk of unraveling. The United States has moved to restrict the use of Chinese technology because of concerns that it is being used for espionage. Last month, the American authorities asked Canada to detain a Huawei executive, who is the daughter of the company’s founder, on charges of committing bank fraud to help the company’s business in Iran. And federal prosecutors in Seattle are also investigating Huawei for intellectual property theft.[Read More: The United States plans to formally make its extradition request within a week.]The fallout is growing across Europe, which has become Huawei’s biggest market outside China, foreshadowing what the company faces in the rest of the world. This month, one of its employees was arrested in Poland and charged with espionage.Officials in Germany, France and the Czech Republic are now among those considering restricting Huawei from the next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G. The head of Britain’s intelligence service, MI6, has raised alarms about using Chinese networking technology. European carriers, including Deutsche Telekom, are reassessing their use of Huawei. And on Thursday, Oxford University announced that it would suspend donations and scholarships from Huawei.“Until there were red flags on security risks, it was smooth sailing for them in Europe,” Thorsten Benner, a founder and director of the Global Public Policy Institute, a policy think tank in Berlin, said of Huawei. “The movement that you’ve seen over the past three months is all in one direction: to find regulatory measures to curtail the use of Chinese equipment in Europe.”Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, an Estonian diplomat involved in cybersecurity discussions with American and European officials about Huawei, said Europe was shifting on Huawei because of suspicions about China rather than specific actions by the company. She highlighted China’s history of hacking and stealing trade secrets, its poor record on human rights and internet censorship, and Chinese cybersecurity rules that could require network operators to defend national security interests.“The Chinese are increasingly departing from the common vision that we’ve had at the U.N. level about what are cybernorms and how we follow international law in cyberspace,” she said. “They have no willingness to play along in this space.”Huawei (pronounced “HWA-way”) has steadfastly denied wrongdoing. In a statement, the company said it had “established strong relations with customers, suppliers and governments across Europe, where cybersecurity has been our top priority.” It added that its growth in Europe was the result of its strong track record, not lobbying. Interacting with government officials is common among large corporations, Huawei said.For European countries, disentangling from Huawei won’t be easy. Its equipment is a crucial part of wireless infrastructure in Europe, and the company has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on 5G research, opening testing hubs in Britain, Germany and Poland. The company has said countries that ban Huawei, like the United States, risk delaying construction of the new hyperfast network.Huawei, based in Shenzhen, China, entered Europe in 2001 but struggled to gain a foothold. It kept pushing because it wanted to expand internationally. The European market became even more important after the company was mostly shut out of the United States in 2012 over security concerns.At one point in 2004, Huawei was so eager to woo European customers that it outfitted a shipping container with its wireless equipment and parked it in front of the headquarters of phone carriers in Germany. The marketing stunt was intended to get employees of those carriers to stop and look.“A lot of them said, ‘Who are you?’” said Stefan Scheuerle, a former Huawei sales manager in Europe who is now chief revenue officer at Sensorberg, a German tech company.In a breakthrough, Huawei struck a deal to provide equipment to BT Group, the British telecom giant, in 2005. To prepare its bid for the BT project, Huawei moved about 100 Chinese workers to hastily rented apartments outside London, according to “Growing Up in a Hail of Gunfire,” a collection of essays used as training material for new hires. The employees often worked until 3 or 4 a.m., and because they didn’t have credit cards, they had to use wads of cash to buy groceries.In 2005, Huawei also secured a deal with the European carrier Vodafone to sell about $1 million of gear. Even so, Mr. Scheuerle said, he was quickly given a new goal: Sell Vodafone $1 billion of equipment within three years. Huawei soon opened an office within steps of Vodafone’s complex in Düsseldorf, Germany.“When I left less than three years later, we were at $850 million — we were almost there,” Mr. Scheuerle said.Huawei moved other employees from China to help in Europe, and hired many non-Chinese employees. It was a jarring cultural change for newcomers unfamiliar with Huawei’s blunt management style; Mr. Scheuerle said staff emails criticized people by name for unsatisfactory work.Mr. Scheuerle held workshops for new employees to help them adapt to the company. He advised them to befriend Chinese colleagues with better knowledge of what was happening at Huawei headquarters in Shenzhen.Today, 12,000 of Huawei’s 180,000 employees are in Europe, up from 7,300 in 2013. The company has vowed to hire nearly 3,000 more by next year. In 2017, it earned more than $20 billion in revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, roughly a quarter of its total business.Even when American officials warned allies of Huawei’s risks, the company largely deflected the concerns. It opened a testing center where British officials inspected its products. It opened 23 research and development facilities in 14 European countries, and supported work at more than 150 universities. The company also hosts government officials and business leaders from Europe at its Shenzhen headquarters.In 2011, Huawei created the board to oversee operations in Britain. In reality, the group has a limited view of Huawei’s inner workings and few responsibilities beyond quarterly meetings and attending some corporate events such as annual summer and winter parties, two people familiar with its activities said.Huawei said the board had legal responsibilities of directors overseeing compliance with laws, health and safety, and potential abuses of power.Now, as criticism mounts, Huawei is meeting with customers and government officials to assuage concerns. This includes allowing German officials to inspect its engineering and code.Next month at the mobile tech conference MWC Barcelona, formerly the Mobile World Congress, Huawei plans to announce new handsets and provide an update of its 5G plans. A new advertising campaign is also in the works, the company said.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]In Manhattan, where multimillion-dollar real estate sales are downright routine, a hedge fund tycoon has managed to set a new standard for conspicuous consumption by paying a fortune for an unfinished piece of property in the sky.The billionaire, Kenneth C. Griffin, spent $238 million for a penthouse at 220 Central Park South that is still under construction, making it the most expensive residential sale in United States history.What’s more, in a New York tale that is not entirely uncommon, the 79-story building where Mr. Griffin’s penthouse will soon exist was built after the landlord evicted dozens of middle class tenants from their rent-stabilized apartments in what was a fairly modest, white-brick building with 20 floors.With a net worth estimated at $10 billion, Mr. Griffin, founder and chief executive of the global investment firm Citadel, is among the richest people in the world. And in recent years, Mr. Griffin has become increasingly willing to flaunt his wealth, spending lavishly on modern art, philanthropy and trophy real estate, even as income inequality is roiling the national political debate.Twice divorced, Mr. Griffin, 50, has three children and is primarily based in Chicago, where Citadel is headquartered. Through a spokesman, Mr. Griffin declined to comment for this story.He is a globe-trotting home buyer, leaving a trail of his pricey purchases, from a $60 million penthouse in Miami to a $122 million mansion in London.All told, according to a person familiar with Mr. Griffin’s spending, he has spent approximately $700 million on real estate and nearly as much on art.He began collecting art more than a decade ago, acquiring works by Cézanne and Monet. In 2006, he spent $80 million on a Jasper Johns painting that he acquired from David Geffen. And in 2016, Mr. Griffin paid $500 million to acquire two paintings — a Jackson Pollock and a Willem de Kooning — this time from Mr. Geffen’s foundation, in what was one of the largest-ever private art deals.Mr. Griffin has declined to join other billionaires in a pact to donate the majority of their wealth to charity. Created by Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett in 2010, the Giving Pledge has more than 150 signees.But Mr. Griffin has given away about $700 million, according to the person familiar with his finances.He is on the board of the Whitney Museum of American Art, which named the lobby of its new building after him. He donated $40 million to the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Griffin and his ex-wife donated $19 million to the Art Institute of Chicago. And at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Mr. Griffin donated $16.5 million to fund the purchase of a cast of Patagotitan mayorum, the largest dinosaur ever discovered.Mr. Griffin has also donated huge sums to educational institutions.In 2014 he gave $150 million to Harvard University, at the time, the largest gift in the school’s history. In 2017 Mr. Griffin’s charity said it would donate $125 million to the University of Chicago, which would rename its influential department of economics after him. More recently, Mr. Griffin has turned his acquisitive eye toward real estate.Fellow financiers said Mr. Griffin should be applauded for his philanthropy, rather than vilified for his spending. John W. Rogers Jr., the chief executive of Ariel Investments, who serves on the board of the University of Chicago with Mr. Griffin (as well as on the board of The New York Times Company), declined to comment on his real estate spending. “The key thing is that he’s decided to be generous now,” Mr. Rogers said. “Ken is a role model for the next generation of hedge fund managers.”Mr. Griffin has cited his maternal grandparents as inspiration for his philanthropy. They ran a fuel oil business in Illinois, and when some customers could not pay their bills during the winter, his grandparents would extend them credit.The Harvard graduate made his fortune through finance. As a sophomore in 1987, Mr. Griffin began trading out of his dorm room using a fax machine, an early personal computer and the phone. Just three years later, he founded Citadel in Chicago.The firm grew rapidly, and today Citadel, which is privately held, manages some $28 billion, trading stocks, fixed income, commodities and more.And Mr. Griffin has proved adept at making a profit even during market turbulence. Last year, Citadel’s flagship fund was up 9.1 percent, despite a difficult end of the year for most markets. In the hedge fund industry, where star managers are rewarded with outsize returns, such performance is extremely lucrative. In 2017 alone, Mr. Griffin earned some $1.4 billion, more than any other hedge fund manager, according to Institutional Investor’s Alpha magazine.Wall Street’s compensations have made New York look like a Monopoly board come to life; there are so many ultraluxury residential buildings along the southern edge of Central Park that it has been nicknamed “Billionaire’s Row.”[The Times’s Ginia Bellafante writes about how loopholes in New York zoning laws are partly responsible for escalating real estate prices.]That Mr. Griffin is spending so freely at a moment when populist movements are gaining momentum around the globe struck some critics as especially tone deaf.“The plutocrats continue brazenly flaunting the excesses that have enraged much of humanity,” said Anand Giridharadas, author of “Winners Take All,” and a critic of wealthy philanthropists. “They’re displaying very little awareness of the moment that we are in.”On Thursday, economic advisers to Senator Elizabeth Warren, who is running for president, said that she would propose introducing a new “wealth tax” on the richest Americans.Mayor Bill de Blasio has long pushed for a tax on millionaires earning more than a certain amount of money, but legislators in Albany have not supported that plan. On Thursday, he called for an expansion of the mansion tax. Currently, buyers of homes that sell for $1 million or more are required to pay a 1 percent tax. The tax, the mayor said, needs to be adjusted to “explicitly” target “high-value purchases” to generate extra revenue that could be used to create affordable housing.Mr. de Blasio, who has promoted himself as a national voice against income inequality, has struggled to address the issue, which is acute in a city with a housing crisis, poverty and extreme wealth. About 79,000 people, most trapped by out-of-reach rents and low wages, are homeless, a record number, and the most of any city in the United States, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.The city’s dysfunctional housing authority struggles to maintain a complex of buildings that is so aging that repairs often take months or years to be completed. Even so, there are hundreds of thousands of people on the waiting list to get an authority apartment.But on Thursday the mayor mostly criticized Mr. Trump’s tax cuts, which heavily favored corporations and the wealthy.“You look at these massive purchases. Does anyone think that these rich individuals can’t afford more in taxes? They have been getting tax break, after tax break, after tax break. Before the Trump tax bill they were already experiencing unprecedented wealth and had a whole system of tax policy that was favoring them in every conceivable way,” Mr. de Blasio said. “The Trump tax cuts put that on steroids.”Mr. Griffin questioned the Trump tax cuts in 2017, suggesting that they were more aggressive than what was needed to stimulate the economy. Mr. Griffin — who in 2012 said that the wealthy have “insufficient influence” in politics — has given to both Democrats and Republicans over the years, though his fiscal policies appear more closely aligned with those usually promoted by conservative lawmakers. He has called for fewer regulations and lower taxes, arguing that such moves would help the economy.He was well-known in wealthy, philanthropic and financial communities. But Mr. Griffin is now known more widely as the man who bought the penthouse for the outrageous price.There was nothing ostentatious about the old building, the one that was mostly demolished by 2013, save for the sought-after address and the spectacular leafy views of Central Park. It first opened in 1954.A state law gives landlords the right to remove tenants from rent-stabilized apartments if they plan to demolish a building and erect a new one, showing proof of financing to do so. Residents received their first eviction notices in 2006. A group of tenants, calling themselves the “Save Our Homes” Association, held on for as long as possible, suing to stay, but eventually settled for an undisclosed amount.Connie Collins, a former TV journalist who worked at WNBC, was one of the holdouts. She recalled being able to see the July 4 fireworks displays from her 12th-floor terrace. “I just hope one of his terraces doesn’t get burnt from a spark because it’s so far up,” said Ms. Collins, 71. She said her monthly rent for a two-bedroom apartment was a little over $2,000 when she moved in 2008. “It was a great time and an affordable time,” she said.Cathy Marshall was also one of the tenants in the old building who stayed as long as possible; she lived there for 36 years. She was in a rear apartment on the eighth floor, so she missed out on the scenic views, but she enjoyed being on the route of the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and the New York City Marathon. “People on your floor, if you were sick, they went down and got you soup,” she said.“I was very happy there. But change happens.”Kenneth Griffin, the billionaire founder of the hedge fund Citadel, broke a real estate record on Wednesday when he closed on his purchase of a penthouse at 220 Central Park South for $238 million. It’s the highest price anyone has paid for a home in the United States, and $100 million above the previous record.Mr. Griffin went to contract on the apartment, in a building that was still being developed, in 2015 amid a real estate buying spree that includes a London mansion he bought this week for 95 million pounds, or about $122 million. Here’s what we know about him. He made his money as a traderMr. Griffin’s financial career began when he was a student at Harvard, where he had a satellite dish installed on the roof of his dorm so he could trade in the relatively arcane area of convertible bonds. After graduating in 1990, he started Citadel as a small investing firm in Chicago. Citadel managed $28 billion at the start of this year, and Forbes has estimated that Mr. Griffin is worth more than $9 billion.He has a taste for pricey propertiesIn addition to the New York penthouse and the London mansion, Mr. Griffin owns two floors of the Waldorf Astoria hotel in Chicago, which he bought for just under $30 million; a $59 million penthouse on Chicago’s so-called Gold Coast; and a $60 million condominium in Miami, among other properties.He’s a Chicago power playerMr. Griffin owns properties all over the world, but he considers Chicago, where Citadel is based, his hometown, and he is active in politics there. He donated more than $1 million to political organizations that supported Mayor Rahm Emanuel in 2015 when Mr. Emanuel was seeking re-election. And he likes to collect artMr. Griffin doesn’t spend his money just on real estate. He is also a well-known art collector, has donated tens of millions of dollars to museums around the United States and once spent $500 million on two paintings. A wing at the Art Institute of Chicago bears his name.The Trump administration’s rosy view of the economy is increasingly diverging from a decidedly more cautious outlook from other prognosticators, including economists at the Federal Reserve and elsewhere, who are warning that growth is slowing, in part because of the president’s own policies.The side that turns out to be correct could heavily influence President Trump’s odds of re-election.His team has predicted that inflation-adjusted growth will average 3 percent through 2024, a rate that far exceeds what other economists believe the United States economy is capable of, barring sharp growth in the labor force and worker productivity. Many economists say last year was an outlier, fueled by a brief boost of fiscal stimulus: Growth appears to have topped 3 percent in 2018 for the first time in a decade. Yet Mr. Trump’s advisers say there is no reason to doubt the economy will achieve such heights again this year.“Last year looked just like we thought, so we don’t think, going into our next forecast, that there’s a heck of a lot of reason to change our mind about things,” Kevin A. Hassett, the chairman of Mr. Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers, said on Tuesday in an interview. He added: “Things basically worked like we expected.” Economists outside the administration disagree and are projecting that growth will slow this year, as the global economy struggles under the weight of a trade war, a slowdown in China and the waning stimulus from both Mr. Trump’s signature tax cuts and additional government spending. Many forecasters also see a small, but lasting, dent to growth from the partial government shutdown that consumed most of January, and which could recur in February if Mr. Trump and congressional leaders cannot agree on a border security deal. Some corporate financial executives warn that the country could be headed toward recession.The Congressional Budget Office predicted this week that growth would slow to 2.3 percent this year and to 1.7 percent in 2020, as fiscal stimulus stops bolstering consumer spending and the economy returns to what the C.B.O. estimates is its long-term growth trend. The report estimated that growth was 3.1 percent in 2018, which was nearly on track with the budget office’s projections in April last year. The Commerce Department has not released the government’s official estimate for  2018 growth yet, because of delays from the shutdown. Economists at the Fed said in December that they also expect 2.3 percent growth this year. Wall Street economists have similarly trimmed their forecasts. Goldman Sachs analysts said in a report on Tuesday that “soft” economic survey data, including consumer confidence figures and regional Fed business surveys, suggest annualized growth of 2.1 percent for the first half of the year. A new survey from the National Association of Business Economists found business investment growth slowing across the economy, with 84 percent of respondents saying that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts are not encouraging their companies to increase investment. Slowing global growth, particularly in China, has caused other forecasters to lower their growth estimates for the United States this year.Mr. Trump’s advisers have not yet released their official forecast for the year. But White House officials say they continue to believe the economy will significantly outperform the expectations of more pessimistic projections, for several reasons. The Council of Economic Advisers’ forecasting model is more bullish than the C.B.O., in part because the administration finds that much of the sluggish growth in the decade preceding Mr. Trump’s election was a hangover from the 2008 financial crisis. The Trump administration also projects a more sustained boost to growth from the $1.5 trillion tax cut package that went into effect last year and deregulatory efforts at agencies across the administration.Administration officials, who are set to meet with their Chinese counterparts on Wednesday to try to end a trade war, dismiss concerns that trade policy or the shutdown have provided an economic drag.“We think there's still a very good case for 3 percent this year,” Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said Tuesday on Fox Business Network. Larry Kudlow, the chairman of the National Economic Council, told reporters on Monday that he believed the administration’s economic model was working. “The program of lower tax rates and regulatory rollback and opening up energy and so forth is working and continuing to work,” Mr. Kudlow said in a briefing at the White House. “And I think frankly the optimists, the guys that took the over, will be right.”Mr. Trump could need that prediction to come true if he hopes to win in 2020. His approval ratings have sagged below 40 percent under the weight of the shutdown, even after recording in 2018 what appears to have been highest annual growth rate since the financial crisis, according to a polling average by the website FiveThirtyEight.The last president with such low ratings at this point in a first term, Ronald Reagan, rebounded to win 49 states in his 1984 re-election campaign. Underpinning that comeback was a roaring economy: In 1983, the American economy grew 4.6 percent after adjusting for inflation. In 1984, it grew 7.2 percent, an annual rate that has not been matched since. The two presidents who most recently lost re-election, Jimmy Carter and George Bush, both saw growth slow the year before they faced voters again. With Democrats now controlling the House of Representatives, Mr. Trump may have little opportunity to pass legislation, such as a second round of tax cuts, in an attempt to further stoke the economy. He does have the ability to work with Chinese leaders to secure a trade deal and with congressional Democrats to end the uncertainty over whether the government will shut down again soon, both of which could modestly aid growth. There are two openings on the Fed’s board of governors, and Mr. Trump has indicated through aides that he will aim to fill them with nominees who will push the central bank to keep interest rates low to support growth. Perhaps the most important component of growth, though, could be what happens to oil prices. Economists at the Penn Wharton Budget Model calculate that as American oil production has increased over the last decade, related in part to the shale boom, investment and growth in the United States have increasingly been tied to crude prices. Rising prices have brought rising investment. Falling prices nearly pushed the country into a contraction near the end of President Barack Obama’s second term.Rising prices lifted growth under Mr. Trump last year, the economists found, and explained the surge in investment that Mr. Trump and his advisers have attributed to the tax cut. Prices have fallen by nearly 25 percent from their peak level of 2018, leading the budget model’s economists to predict that business investment will be weaker at the start of this year than last year — contrary to what Mr. Trump’s team forecasts.“The fundamentals are not as strong as they look from the top-line numbers,” said Alexander Arnon, a senior analyst at the budget model. Rising investment in 2018, he said, was “more attributable to global factors pushing oil prices up, and less to the underlying momentum in business growth.”Mr. Hassett told reporters recently that he higher oil prices most likely contributed to a surge in energy investment in 2018. But, he added, “I’m sure that the drilling and mining effect was magnified by the beneficial tax changes, as well.”LONDON — Investment in Britain’s auto industry plummeted last year as the country’s departure from the European Union drew nearer without agreement over the terms of leaving the bloc, figures released on Thursday show. Investment in 2018 dropped 46.5 percent from the year before, according to data from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, a British trade association. With the Brexit debate in London and Brussels mired in disagreement and recriminations, concerns and warnings from businesses have grown louder. Uncertainty is usually bad for trade, and companies have repeatedly urged political leaders to provide clarity about the withdrawal and its likely effects on commerce.But those pleas have generally gone unanswered, and many multinational companies have said they are ready to move operations outside Britain. In its report on Thursday, the Society of Motor Manufacturers urged British lawmakers to do whatever was necessary to prevent the country from leaving the bloc without an agreement with the European Union, a so-called no-deal Brexit. In addition to the data on the drop in investment, the organization published figures that showed production had fallen to its lowest level in five years. “With fewer than 60 days before we leave the E.U., and the risk of crashing out without a deal looking increasingly real, U.K. automotive is on red alert,” Mike Hawes, the organization’s chief executive, said in a statement. “Brexit uncertainty has already done enormous damage to output, investment and jobs.” “Brexit is the clear and present danger and, with thousands of jobs on the line, we urge all parties to do whatever it takes to save us from ‘no deal,’” he added. Negative effects on the British auto industry, which directly employs about 186,000 people, appear to have already started.Regulatory changes, uncertainty, and declining confidence among businesses and consumers hampered production for sales within Britain, the organization said. Manufacturing of vehicles for export, which represent more than 80 percent of output, dropped 7.3 percent in 2018, it added. Demand from China fell by almost a quarter, the figures showed, while demand from the European Union sank almost 10 percent as a global slowdown started to bite. Automakers like Jaguar Land Rover and BMW have already said that they would briefly pause production after Britain’s scheduled leaving date at the end of March, to assess and cope with any disruptions that come with life outside the European Union. The chief executive of the luxury carmaker Bentley, Adrian Hallmark, has called Brexit a “killer” for his turnaround plans.And London Electric Vehicle Company, which makes black cabs and is owned by Geely of China, said on Thursday that it would cut 70 position among its agency staff in response to the uncertainty.Manufacturers in Britain have taken advantage of freedom of movement among European Union members to create just-in-time manufacturing processes that allow components to be delivered minutes before they are needed. That has allowed companies to use expertise and plants in different locations and reduced the need for storage. But many manufacturers are now choosing to stockpile parts as the Brexit deadline draws nearer without confirmation that they will have the same trade advantages as before.An exercise in traffic management this past month near the port of Dover, in southern England, prompted ridicule and did little to reassure businesses that they would be able to continue bringing goods into Britain without major delays. The damage already done to the car sector, Mr. Hawes said, would be “nothing compared with the permanent devastation caused by severing our frictionless trade links overnight, not just with the E.U. but with the many other global markets with which we currently trade freely.”Saudi Arabia said on Thursday that it had concluded a crackdown on high-level corruption that began 15 months ago with the detention of hundreds of prominent businessmen and former officials at the Ritz-Carlton in the capital.The purge helped confirm the unrivaled authority of Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince and de facto ruler of the kingdom, and critics have called it a power grab. Saudi Arabia has disclosed little about the proceedings, and associates of several people caught up in the crackdown have said the detentions were arbitrary, lacking in any judicial process and frequently targeted foes of the prince.Associates of many of those detained have also said they were subjected to torture and physical abuse, then coerced into turning over large sums of money or other assets in exchange for their release.Supporters of the crown prince defend the crackdown as a necessary push to shock the Saudi elite out of longstanding habits of graft and self-dealing. The kingdom has denied any physical abuse.Announcing the conclusion of the process may be part of an effort to repair the image of the crown prince, whose reputation in the West suffered severely after Saudi agents killed Jamal Khashoggi in October inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul. American intelligence agencies and many other Western government officials have concluded that Prince Mohammed ordered the assassination of Mr. Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident and Washington Post columnist.This week, Saudi Arabia hosted a conference in the capital, Riyadh, seeking to solicit hundreds of millions of dollars in new investment in its mining, manufacturing and logistics industries. Officials of several Western countries, including the United States, withdrew from a larger Saudi investment conference in the weeks after the Khashoggi killing.Saudi Arabia has never officially disclosed the names of those accused in its corruption crackdown, the allegations or evidence against them, or any assets recovered in the process.But in recent weeks, the kingdom quietly released several prominent detainees. Among those reportedly released were Mohammed al-Amoudi, a businessman who owns much of Ethiopia; Bakr Bin Laden, the chief executive of the Saudi construction company Binladen Group; and Amr Dabbagh, a former government minister who once led the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority, which aims to attract foreign investment.Those still detained include Prince Turki bin Abdullah, the former governor of Riyadh, and Walid Fitaihi, a prominent physician, businessman and motivational speaker. Dr. Fitaihi, who has not been charged with any crime, is also a United States citizen. The State Department has declined to comment on his case.The crackdown was carried out by an “anticorruption committee” created for the purpose and led by Prince Mohammed. Saudi Arabia announced last summer that the committee had “summoned” 381 people, some only as witnesses.In a statement on Thursday, the kingdom said that 87 of those detained had been released after signing confessions and agreeing to settlements.The government previously said that it had refused settlements with 56 people “due to existing criminal charges against them.” It added on Thursday that eight others had “refused to settle despite the existence of evidence against them.”That brought to 64 the number of people referred to the public prosecutor. It is not clear where they are being held.The statement on Thursday said that the crackdown had “retrieved to state treasury” a sum equal to $106 billion in “real estate, companies, cash and other assets.”The figure is consistent with previous estimates by Saudi officials. But investors familiar with the kingdom cautioned that the true market value in foreign currencies of Saudi real estate or companies may be hard to determine because of the opaque nature of the local market and restrictions on international sales.“The committee has completed its objective,” the statement said, adding that King Salman had approved Prince Mohammed’s request “to conclude its tasks.”Anyone paying attention to financial markets in recent months knew that the Federal Reserve’s management of the economy was perhaps the single most important question on the minds of investors.The Fed, of course, has been raising interest rates, including four increases last year, which unnerved many investors. These days, though, the focus has shifted to what the central bank will do with another tool it previously used to stoke economic growth.As part of its campaign to rescue the economy after the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed bought enormous quantities of bonds issued or guaranteed by the federal government. Now the question is how quickly, and by how much, it will shrink that pile. On Wednesday, the Fed left rates unchanged and signaled that it could slow its bond sales if economic and financial conditions change. Investors cheered, with the S&P 500 rising about 1.5 percent. The index is up nearly 7 percent this year.Once an area of interest for only the most intrepid of Fed watchers, the bond portfolio has started to overshadow more fundamental economic concerns, like China’s slowing economy and the government shutdown. Since last year, the Fed has been reducing its bond stockpile by up to $50 billion a month. Investors increasingly point to the trend to explain the ugly performances of virtually every kind of investment in 2018. Even President Trump weighed in, tweeting in December that the Fed should “Stop with the 50 B’s.”Players in the markets have bestowed the Fed’s bond-shedding policy with its very own nickname: quantitative tightening, or Q.T.So what is quantitative tightening? How is it supposed to work? And how much of an impact is it having on markets? Read on.Before there was Q.T., there was Q.E.The first thing to know is that quantitative tightening is basically the slow unwinding of a series of policies put in place to counter the financial crisis. A decade ago, that crisis nearly pushed the United States into a second Great Depression. Financial markets crashed. Unemployment surged. Economic growth collapsed. By law, the Fed is supposed to fight unemployment. So, when recession rears its head, the central bank steps in, typically by cutting the short-term interest rates it controls. By the end of 2008, it had slashed them essentially to zero. During normal times, short-term interest rates have a strong influence on how much it costs consumers and companies to borrow money. But during the financial crisis, the Fed’s rate cuts barely budged longer-term borrowing rates, which stayed stubbornly high. Investors were so spooked that they refused to put their money into anything other than super-safe, short-term government bonds. The Fed needed to push longer-term interest rates down. With short-term rates at their lowest possible levels, the central bank went looking for new tools. And that is how quantitative easing was born. In early 2009, the Fed started buying immense quantities of bonds — trying to drive their prices up and their rates down. By 2014, the Fed was the proud owner of roughly $2.5 trillion worth of Treasury bonds and more than $1.5 trillion of government-backed mortgage bonds. Did it work?Yes. The Fed’s bond-buying didn’t immediately cure every economic ill brought on by the recession. The United States would limp through nearly a decade of sluggish growth, even as the Fed continued to devour bonds. But the consensus among investors and policymakers is that all of the bond purchases helped push key borrowing rates — such as those for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages and for corporate bonds — to their lowest levels in a generation. That made loans at least a little more affordable and offered some support to the fragile economy. In the stock and bond markets, the power of the Fed’s campaign was even more pronounced. By pumping trillions of dollars into the financial system, quantitative easing propped up the value of stocks, bonds and all sorts of other assets. Few in the markets think it a coincidence that the beginning of Q.E. was also the beginning of the longest bull market in history.Now comes Q.T.A decade later, the economy is in much better shape. Unemployment is at its lowest level in decades. Early data indicates that the economy last year grew at its fastest clip since 2005. Wages are even starting to rise. To the central bank, those rosy economic signs meant it was time to start removing some of the scaffolding it had erected to support the crumbling economy. The Fed started raising interest rates in December 2015. And it has also started to shrink its hoard of bonds. Last year, the Fed’s portfolio declined by more than $350 billion — the sharpest reduction since the crisis. You may have also noticed that the financial markets were battered last year. Almost every type of investment seemed to suffer the same lackluster returns. The S&P 500 was down 6.2 percent. High-quality corporate bonds sank 6.4 percent. United States Treasury bonds generated a paltry 0.9 percent return. A collapse in crude oil prices sent commodities down more than 15 percent. In fact, it was the first time in decades that virtually all major classes of investments suffered in sync, with none posting returns in excess of 5 percent. The concern over Q.T. flared in December. As stock markets swung wildly, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, played down the chance that the central bank would change its approach to its steady bond reductions, which he described as being on “automatic pilot.” The stock market sank about 6 percent in the days after that statement. The Fed’s shrinking bond portfolio isn’t entirely to blame for the carnage of 2018. Plenty of other things had investors worrying: a slowdown in global growth, weakening corporate profits, the trade war with China and the Fed’s rate increases.Economists inside and outside the Fed say the impact last year should have been relatively small. After all, the gradual, recurring bond reductions were set in motion years ago, and should have been incorporated into prices in financial markets.Nevertheless, investors welcomed the Fed’s message on Wednesday that it could change its plans to reduce its bond holdings. The central bank said in a news release that it was “prepared to adjust any of the details for completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments.” In a news conference, Mr. Powell also suggested that the decline of the Fed’s bond holdings could stop sooner and leave the Fed with a larger supply of bonds than previously thought. “Any conversation about the balance sheet that does not use the word autopilot is good,” said Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute.  The last global economic crisis, for all its complex detail, had one big, simple cause: A huge housing and debt bubble had emerged in both the United States and Europe, and it took the world economy down when it deflated.The previous, milder recession, in 2001, also had a single cause: the bursting of a bubble in technology stocks and investment (remember Pets.com?).But the slump before that, in 1990-91, was a messier story. It was a smorgasbord recession — a downturn with multiple causes, ranging from the troubles of savings and loan institutions, to a glut of office buildings, to falling military spending at the end of the Cold War.The best guess is that the next downturn will similarly involve a mix of troubles, rather than one big thing. And over the past few months we’ve started to see how it could happen. It’s by no means certain that a recession is looming, but some of our fears are beginning to come true.Right now, I see four distinct threats to the world economy. (I may be missing others.)China: Many people, myself included, have been predicting a Chinese crisis for a long time — but it has kept not happening. China’s economy is deeply unbalanced, with too much investment and too little consumer spending; but time and again the government has been able to steer away from the cliff by ramping up construction and ordering banks to make credit ultra-easy.But has the day of reckoning finally arrived? Given China’s past resilience, it’s hard to feel confident. Still, recent data on Chinese manufacturing look grim.And trouble in China would have worldwide repercussions. We tend to think of China only as an export juggernaut, but it’s also a huge buyer of goods, especially commodities like soybeans and oil; U.S. farmers and energy producers will be very unhappy if the Chinese economy stalls.Europe: For some years Europe’s underlying economic weakness, due to an aging population and Germany’s obsession with running budget surpluses, was masked by recovery from the euro crisis. But the run of good luck seems to be coming to an end, with the uncertainty surrounding Brexit and Italy’s slow-motion crisis undermining confidence; as with China, recent data are ugly.And like China, Europe is a big player in the world economy, so its stumbles will spill over to everyone, the U.S. very much included.Trade war: Over the past few decades, businesses around the world invested vast sums based on the belief that old-fashioned protectionism was a thing of the past. But Donald Trump hasn’t just imposed high tariffs, he’s demonstrated a willingness to violate the spirit, if not the letter, of existing trade agreements. You don’t have to be a doctrinaire free-trader to believe that this must have a depressing economic effect.For now, corporate leaders reportedly believe that things won’t get out of hand, that the U.S. and China in particular will reach a deal. But this sentiment could turn suddenly if and when business realizes that the hard-liners still seem to be calling the shots.The shutdown: It’s not just the federal workers not getting paid. It’s also the contractors, who will never get reimbursed for their losses, the food stamp recipients who will be cut off if the stalemate goes on, and more. Conventional estimates of the cost of the shutdown are almost surely too low, because they don’t take account of the disruption a nonfunctioning government will impose on every aspect of life.As in the case of a trade war, business leaders reportedly believe that the shutdown will soon be resolved. But what will happen to investment and hiring if and when corporate America concludes that Trump has boxed himself in, and that this could go on for many months?So there are multiple things going wrong, all of which threaten the economy. How bad will it be?The good news is that even taking all these negatives together, they don’t come close to the body blow the world economy took from the 2008 financial crisis. The bad news is that it’s not clear what policymakers can or will do to respond when things go wrong.Monetary policy ­— that is, interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve and its counterparts abroad — is normally the first line of defense against recession. But the Fed has very limited room to cut, because interest rates are already low, and in Europe, where rates are negative, there’s no room at all.Fiscal policy — temporary hikes in government spending and aid to vulnerable workers — is the usual backup to monetary easing. But would a president who’s holding federal workers hostage in pursuit of a pointless wall be willing to enact a sensible stimulus? And in Europe, any proposal for fiscal action would probably encounter the usual German nein.Finally, dealing effectively with any kind of global slump requires a lot of international cooperation. How plausible is that given who’s currently in charge?Again, I’m not saying that a global recession is necessarily about to happen. But the risks are clearly rising: The conditions for such a slump are now in place, in a way they weren’t even a few months ago.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.FRONT PAGEAn article on Tuesday about the government shutdown’s impact on the Department of Housing and Urban Development and nonprofit groups dedicated to helping low-income renters misidentified the location of an apartment complex. It is in Newport, Ark., not Newton, Ark.INTERNATIONALAn article on Jan. 9 about the possibility of a “no-deal” Brexit quoted Martin Thornton, who was described as a driver for the Eddie Stobart trucking company. The company has since said it did not have a driver with that name. The Times was unable to confirm Mr. Thornton’s employment information and has removed his comments from the digital version of the article.NATIONALAn article Thursday about the confirmation hearing for Andrew Wheeler, President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, misstated Molly Rauch’s position with Moms Clean Air Force. She is public health policy director for the group, not a volunteer.BUSINESSAn article on Tuesday about the complexities of airlines’ frequent-flier perks misstated the medallion status that Delta Air Lines passengers achieve by flying 25,000 qualifying miles. It is silver, not platinum.SCIENCE TIMESAn article on Tuesday about the navigational strategies of ants misstated the surname of a researcher. He is Ryan W. Draft, not Dash.DININGA recipe last Wednesday for Sumac-Scented Eggplant and Chickpeas omitted the addition of the eggplant. After being browned in a skillet and cooled on a baking sheet, the eggplant should be stirred back into the tomato mixture, in Step 3, with the chickpeas, scallions, mint and water, and simmered.EDITORIALAn Op-Ed on Monday about Bill James misstated the name of a research organization. It is the Society of American Baseball Research, not the Society of Advanced Baseball Research.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Thursday about John C. Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies, misstated both the original name and the current name of the fund he established shortly after founding Vanguard. It was originally called the First Index Investment Trust, not the Vanguard Index Trust (that was a later name); and it is now known as the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, not the Index 500 Fund. The obituary also omitted part of the name of the heart condition for which Mr. Bogle had been treated for more than 30 years. It is arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, not right ventricular dysplasia.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.SACRAMENTO — In the backyard of California’s Capitol sits Franklin Boulevard, a largely industrial area where many residents earn a living keeping old vehicles on the road. The state, which has been aggressively pushing toward an electric-car future, has made few such inroads in this working-class neighborhood.“Electric vehicles are for the rich. It’s not for us,” said Mike Bokan, who owns an auto-repair shop on Franklin Boulevard, explaining a prevailing attitude. The median income here is $30,000.One solution for making electric vehicles accessible to low-income Californians is coming from an unlikely ally: Volkswagen.In 2016, after admitting to lying about excessive emissions from its diesel vehicles, Volkswagen agreed to pay $14.7 billion in penalties. The settlement also earmarked $2 billion to be invested by Electrify America, a Volkswagen subsidiary, in building a nationwide network of highway chargers that allow long-distance road trips in an electric vehicle. But California, which will receive $800 million from that pool, is requiring 35 percent of the funds to be spent on low-income and disadvantaged communities.Among the first investments are three new all-electric, eight-seat shuttles that will be put into service along Franklin Boulevard — courtesy of Electrify America. Mr. Bokan, who is also president of the local business association, welcomes the shuttles, due by July. They will be a small relief from the exhaust coming from Highway 99, a diesel-choked trucking route that borders the area.Across town, Sarah Quismondo, a retired nursing staff coordinator, lives in Riverview Plaza, a low-income senior apartment complex. In a neighboring parking lot are two Kia Soul electric cars that are part of a car-share program that began in May 2017. The program provides free access to the cars, and Ms. Quismondo signed up right away.She was so enthused by the experience — “I love driving these cars, they’re very quiet,” she said — that she became an official representative of the program, Our Community CarShare. She signed up six other residents, and gives rides to fellow retirees at Riverview Plaza who no longer drive.The program, run by the Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District, served as the blueprint for another Electrify America program in the city, just underway, to put 140 all-electric Volkswagen e-Golfs at 70 low-income apartment complexes for car-sharing.The air district’s boss, Alberto Ayala, is a longtime leader in California’s clean-energy efforts. His previous work as the chief enforcer of the state’s vehicle emissions regulations was instrumental in exposing Volkswagen’s diesel deceptions.After the scandal fully came to light, the company agreed to pay huge financial penalties worldwide, two Volkswagen executives were sent to prison — and Mr. Ayala’s city is now teeming with E.V. experiments.Outside the Edge Water affordable housing complex opposite the county jail, Mr. Ayala points proudly to two more shared electric cars. “We just don’t want more rebates for Tesla buyers, because they don’t need it.” (The first Tesla cars cost upward of $100,000, and the company is pressing to bring its Model 3 to the mass market.)Mr. Ayala added that programs to democratize electric vehicles were “the only thing to keep people like me that were involved in the Volkswagen case going.”He said that for many years, the state’s goal was to lift sales numbers of electric vehicles regardless of how wealthy the buyers might be. “But the thinking evolved,” he said. “Our political leaders said that’s not going to cut it anymore.”For nearly a decade, California has offered consumer rebates, as much as $7,000 per car, to make E.V.s more affordable. Since 2011, 15 residents of the 95824 ZIP code that surrounds Franklin Boulevard used the rebates. In the dense 95814 ZIP code where Ms. Quismondo lives, 71 did.The combined population of 40,000 in those two ZIP codes received $163,900 in state rebates. By contrast, in the affluent 94025 ZIP code, home to a similarly sized population — near Tesla’s headquarters in Palo Alto, Calif. — buyers received $2.4 million in rebates.Persuading people to use the e-Golfs stationed at low-income apartment buildings could be a challenge. They cost 15 cents a minute or $9 an hour to use. Mr. Ayala cited obstacles to adoption in his organization’s car-share program, which is free. He said many residents don’t have driver’s licenses or credit cards, which are needed to activate the service.I paid three visits to the Whispering Pines apartments, which was included in the service by Electrify America on Nov. 1. Each time, I found leaves collecting in the charging ports of the two cars, as if they had not been moved for several days. Envoy Technologies, which operates the program, declined to share usage rates for the cars at Whispering Pines.In yet another Sacramento-based experiment financed by Electrify America, a program called Gig this month started to put the first of 260 all-electric Chevrolet Bolts on city streets in a 13-square-mile zone between downtown and midtown. Seventy percent of residents in this zone are considered low income.Users can locate a Bolt via a mobile app, unlock the door, start it up and drive for $2.50 a mile or $15 an hour. When the ride is completed, members can park the car in any legal spot in the designated zone, lock the door and move on.These activities, which have turned Sacramento into a test bed for equitable access to E.V.s, are being conducted in the first $200 million cycle of the Electrify America investment. The company says these programs have taken about a year to develop and won’t bear fruit until later this year.Even with few of those services fully in operation, Electrify America went back in December to the California Air Resources Board to get approval for the second $200 million cycle. The meeting became contentious when two board members, Assemblyman Eduardo Garcia and the former State Senator Dean Florez, both hailing from rural districts, accused Electrify America of primarily focusing on profits, which it is entitled to earn under the Volkswagen settlement.“They plan to invest $95 million to $115 million in places like San Francisco, Beverly Hills or La Jolla, where projected demand is high for electric vehicles, rather than building charging stations in lower-income communities where the market will take longer to grow,” they wrote in a Sacramento Bee editorial. “Comparatively, only $2 million would be spent for community charging in rural areas badly in need of investment and opportunity.”Electrify America officials say the rural investment in the first two cycles is closer to $50 million, when considering the charging stations positioned at Target and Walmart stores and at other locations along highway routes, as well as urban charging hubs.Encouraging adoption of electric vehicles in rural areas might be the toughest challenge. “Electrify America is not going to want to heavily invest in an area where they think the utilization of the chargers is going to be really low,” said Scott Shepard, a senior research analyst at Navigant Research, which focuses on clean-energy markets. “They’re going to need extra pushing from regulators.”After four hours of testimony from the public and board members, the state approved the second phase of the project. Mr. Florez cast the only vote against moving forward. He cited insufficient investment in rural areas, a lack of data about progress to date and a broken promise to quickly approve a second city to join Sacramento in becoming a test bed.“I have a very serious issue with trust in the company,” Mr. Florez said in an interview. “People tend to forget why we got here in the first place,” he added, referring to Volkswagen’s emissions scandal.Giovanni Palazzo, the chief executive of Electrify America, defended the company’s progress and its commitment to equity. He said Electrify America needed to simultaneously serve regions where E.V.s were already popular and “invest, test and learn where there’s no adoption at all.”Electrify America also faces criticism from competing charging infrastructure companies, like ChargePoint and EVgo. They are unhappy to see a new, well-financed rival — with the state’s imprimatur and Volkswagen’s funding — for coveted public charging locations.Mr. Ayala, the former California regulator, is undaunted by the political friction in making electric vehicles accessible to all. “We know that not all projects are going to work,” he said. “But this city is now a laboratory where things happen. If we find something that works, we can scale it up to the state level, then the nation and eventually the world.”WASHINGTON — Senator Richard M. Burr, the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, warned American corporations on Wednesday that using Chinese technology in next-generation telecommunication networks could pose security risks, but stopped short of endorsing a ban on such equipment that the Trump administration is considering.Mr. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said in an interview that China was making investments in key technologies, like the kind that will power fifth-generation, or 5G, cellular networks, to have “economic dominance, military dominance” over the United States.“We have to get 5G right,” Mr. Burr said. “And getting it right is contingent on the hardware that goes into the highway.”The Trump administration is considering a broad executive order banning American telecom companies from using Chinese equipment and software in new wireless networks, and has pressured allies to block Huawei, China’s leading telecommunications producer, from having a prominent role in building their 5G networks. The administration contends that whichever country dominates 5G could gain a long-lasting economic, intelligence and military edge, and has accused China of trying to secure an advantage at America’s expense.Last year, Australia banned Huawei and other Chinese companies from competing to build the 5G network in that country.Mr. Burr said the Senate was not looking at the problem with the idea of “banning or forbidding products,” suggesting such a ban would be at odds with the American system. He drew a comparison between Huawei and Russian software companies, whose use by American businesses declined once the United States government deemed their software too risky for its own computers.“I am not sure in America we can do the Australian approach,” he said. “But having a discussion about that is O.K.”Mr. Burr’s remarks came as the Department of Homeland Security conducted an educational session for American companies to warn them about broad and persistent threats from China to steal their technology, particularly by hacking cloud-based services.Telecommunications companies have met with Mr. Burr and the top Democrat on the committee, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, and the two men have laid out their concerns about Huawei and other firms.Mr. Burr said the American government had become more open about what it shares with businesses and educational institutions about the threat from China.“It is absolutely a necessity for us to share with whoever what the risk is of making a cost-based decision versus a security-based decision,” he said. Huawei’s equipment can often be purchased at cheaper prices than that of American or European competitors.The 5G fight is only one front in an increasingly hostile battle over technology and trade between the United States and China, with Mr. Trump imposing tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars of goods and accusing the Chinese of “stealing our intellectual property.” Mr. Burr predicted that the United States is likely to sharply reduce education visas for Chinese students, as it tries to limit the threat of American research and technology being taken back to Beijing.“I am more concerned with the fictitious effort to be educated in America — work for 10 years — with the full intent to bring back to China everything you can learn, store or steal,” Mr. Burr said.The senator said he had met with leaders of universities in his state, which include elite institutions such as Duke and the University of North Carolina, to warn them that the number of Chinese students is likely to decline.Chinese nationals make up a large number of students, particularly in graduate math and science programs. National security officials have warned that not enough guardrails are in place to prevent students from taking technology, data and know-how back to China.Mr. Burr said it was difficult to sort out students who might be intent on stealing secrets from those who simply want an education and a life in the United States, suggesting that reducing visas was the only viable solution. Chinese visas have been declining in recent years, although that is at least in part because of a change in the length of visas.“You are talking about cutting off the honey pot revenue stream of every academic institution in this country,” Mr. Burr said. “But this is about being honest and conveying the risk and the reward.”Mr. Burr also said American corporations must be more careful when investing in China, and realize the danger posed by using Chinese-made networks and storing their data in China, where the government in Beijing can gain access to it.“We believe it is important for U.S. companies to grow,” he said. “But we also owe it to them to let them understand the vulnerabilities that exist through capital deployment there, data storage there or a switch that just happens to be located on that 5G highway in an obscure place.”That was the goal on Wednesday of the Department of Homeland Security’s session for businesses on Chinese espionage.The department’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency highlighted how China was working to infiltrate cloud services and managed service providers, which offer remote information technology services to companies, to steal data.Groups like APT10, an arm of China’s spy service also known as Stone Panda, have used open source hacking tools and phishing attacks to steal credentials and then penetrate data stored in the cloud.The technology targeted by China is from the industries that Beijing has said it wants to dominate in its China 2025 strategic plan, said Rex Booth, a member of the Cyberthreat Risk Analysis Team at the department.“APT10 targeted a variety of organizations across the globe,” Mr. Booth said. “This reads like a shopping list from China’s strategic plans.”HOUSTON — Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil said on Tuesday that they are making a big investment in American natural gas exports. The deal is designed in part to strengthen Qatar’s ties with the United States nearly two years after Saudi Arabia and its allies launched a trade embargo against the country.The companies said they would spend more than $10 billion to turn Golden Pass, a terminal in Texas originally built to import gas, into an export hub for gas extracted from shale fields in Texas, New Mexico and elsewhere.A deeper push into the United States would give state-owned Qatar Petroleum, already the biggest liquefied natural gas exporter in the world, quicker and cheaper access to Latin America, freeing more of its domestic production for lucrative Asian markets.Qatar is also making a bid to strengthen its relationship with the Trump administration, which has established close ties with Saudi Arabia.“For Qatar, this serves as a counterbalance to the Saudi-U.S. relationship,” said Leslie Palti-Guzman, president of GasVista, a New York-based consulting firm. “Saudi Arabia and Qatar right now are looking to invest in the U.S. liquefied natural gas play, and both think it’s going to carry favor with the Trump administration.”The administration has attempted periodically to mediate Qatar’s dispute with Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates and Egypt since the Saudi-led bloc cut economic and diplomatic ties with Qatar in 2017. But President Trump has sent conflicting signals about his intentions by, at times, appearing to support Saudi Arabia and its allies in the dispute.Qatar has long leveraged its gas wealth to exert political influence around the Middle East and North Africa, with television broadcasting, financial support for Hamas in Gaza and alliances with Muslim Brotherhood chapters and militia groups around the region. The country also hosts a major American military base.Qatar Petroleum has been a big investor in Golden Pass for years. Originally the giant terminal in Sabine Pass, Tex., was designed to import gas, and cost $2 billion to build about a decade ago. But the frenzy of natural gas drilling in shale fields created a domestic glut, and the facility has been dormant for the last eight years.Exxon Mobil and Qatar Petroleum will reverse some pipelines and add several enormous refrigerant plants to Golden Pass. The plants will cool gas to minus-260 degrees Fahrenheit and condense it into a liquid to be loaded onto tankers and shipped to Latin America, Asia and Europe.Golden Pass is expected to create about 9,000 jobs during five years of construction and 200 permanent positions. The announcement had been delayed for years by regulatory hurdles. In 2017, the Energy Department approved exports from Golden Pass.“Golden Pass will provide an increased, reliable, long-term supply of liquefied natural gas to global gas markets, stimulate local growth and create thousands of jobs,” Exxon Mobil’s chief executive, Darren Woods, said in a statement.Qatar Petroleum will own 70 percent of the project, with Exxon Mobil as its junior partner. The two companies have a long relationship that includes projects in Argentina, Brazil and Mozambique.“The politics and the economics are aligned,” said Nikos Tsafos, an energy expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, referring to Golden Pass.Qatar Petroleum’s footprint is expanding at home and worldwide. In Qatar, it is working with international companies to increase L.N.G. production capacity by more than 40 percent.It is also expanding in Morocco, Cyprus, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, South Africa and Mozambique, and has expressed interest in making billions of dollars of additional investments in United States oil and gas production.Much of the money is coming from investments Qatar removed from countries around the Middle East in retaliation for the blockade. In December, the country said it would leave the Saudi-dominated Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to focus on its gas business.Qatar is stepping up investments in the United States and elsewhere in response to changes in the global gas market.In the last few years Qatar’s dominance in long-distance shipping of natural gas has been challenged by Australia, and more recently by the United States. Last year, the United States became the fastest growing exporter of liquefied natural gas as the global gas trade increased by 10 percent, primarily because of growing demand in China, Japan and South Korea.The Energy Department projects that American L.N.G. export capacity will increase from 3.6 billion cubic feet a day, to 8.9 billion cubic feet a day by the end of the year, as companies finish several facilities across the Gulf Coast.Natural gas is the fossil fuel with the fastest growing demand worldwide. The number of countries importing L.N.G. has more than doubled to over 40 in the last decade.Asian countries are using gas to replace coal and oil in their power sectors. Thailand and the Philippines are considering L.N.G. imports as a replacement for declining domestic gas production. Many European countries are seeking L.N.G. imports to reduce their dependence on Russia and because gas production on the continent is in decline.“We see the number of buyers increasing very fast,” said Jean-Baptiste Dubreuil, a senior gas analyst at the International Energy Agency in Paris. “In most cases, gas is replacing more carbon-intensive fuels, so it’s a positive.”For Exxon Mobil, the investment marks significantly increased interest in the L.N.G. trade that should fit neatly with its growing investment in oil and gas production in shale fields, particularly in Texas and New Mexico.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]For the last five years, a bill that would create a so-called pied-à-terre tax in New York has languished in the State Legislature, where proposals for new taxes often go to die.But after Kenneth C. Griffin, a hedge fund billionaire with an estimated net worth of $10 billion, added to his personal real estate portfolio last month by closing on a $238 million apartment on Central Park South, things may soon be different.The record purchase — surpassing the cost of the next most expensive home in the United States by more than $100 million — was a stark reminder that when wealthy buyers like Mr. Griffin purchase expensive apartments as second homes or investments, New York City and the state get less financial benefits. If the buyers live out of state, they are not subject to state or city income taxes, and do not pay New York sales tax while outside the state.A pied-à-terre tax would institute a yearly tax on homes worth $5 million or more, and would apply to homes that do not serve as the buyer’s primary residence.Large cities around the world have been grappling with how to make wealthy absentee property owners pay for the privilege of owning secondary residences, a recent report from the Real Estate Institute of British Columbia shows. Sydney, Paris and London have all recently added or increased taxes on the purchase of secondary homes.In Hong Kong, nonpermanent residents pay a 15 percent fee on the value of the home, and foreigners pay an additional 15 percent fee. Singapore has restrictions on the purchase of residential property by foreigners and a 15 percent tax. In Denmark, foreigners are required to obtain permission from the government to purchase secondary homes.In Vancouver, where the greatest concentration of vacant properties is downtown, owners of empty residential properties are charged a 1 percent tax based on the assessed value.In 2018, the number of vacant homes declined by 15 percent and about $33 million in taxes is expected to be collected — a revenue stream earmarked for affordable housing.“The best level to do this at is the city level, because the taxes can go right back into fixing the problem,” said the mayor of Vancouver, Kennedy Stewart, who favors increasing the tax to 3 percent.Until recently, elected officials in New York have been less receptive to a pied-à-terre tax. The bill, first introduced in 2014 by State Senator Brad Hoylman, a Democrat who represents some of the wealthiest neighborhoods in Manhattan, has been blocked by the ruling Senate Republicans.But Democrats seized control of the Senate in November, and legislative leaders are now considering the bill.“It’s something we haven’t discussed in the conference yet, but we will,” said Mike Murphy, a spokesman for the Senate Democrats.Michael Whyland, a spokesman for the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, said the legislation, sponsored in the Assembly by Deborah J. Glick, will be “closely” reviewed as part of the budget process.Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, said the administration was open to it as well.Senator Hoylman acknowledged that the nearly quarter-billion-dollar apartment was a perfect poster child for his bill, saying that stratospheric sales like this “are the gifts that keep giving.”“A $238 million purchase puts things into perspective,” he said.Indeed, the City Council speaker, Corey Johnson, said he planned to urge legislators in Albany to authorize the pied-à-terre tax when he testifies there during budget hearings next week. Mr. Johnson’s support suggests that if the Legislature passes such a bill, the Council would then give its approval to implement it, if necessary.“I saw the story about the $238 million penthouse that someone might not even live in, and said now is the time to renew the call on this,” Mr. Johnson said in an interview. “I think this is doable and we should start the conversation now.”Mr. Johnson, who is exploring a run for mayor in 2021, said that in his district, which includes the High Line, there are “apartments that are crumbling and apartments 50 feet away that are selling for millions of dollars.”Mr. Hoylman’s legislation would create a sliding tax surcharge: For properties valued between $5 million and $6 million, a 0.5 percent surcharge would be added on the value over $5 million. Fees and a higher surcharge would apply to homes that sold for more than $6 million, topping out at a $370,000 fee and a 4 percent surcharge for homes valued at more than $25 million.The office of the city comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, estimated that a pied-à-terre tax would bring in a minimum of $650 million annually if enacted today. “For us, $650 million a year is a lot of money to deal with things such as our subway crisis,” Mr. Stringer said, “but it’s a rounding error for the people who own these expensive part-time apartments.”The people most likely to be affected by the tax are the “international elite” who can afford it, he said.There were 75,000 pieds-à-terre in New York City in 2017, up from 55,000 such units in 2014, according to the New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey. In spite of the increase, the share of pieds-à-terre that comprise vacant units unavailable for sale or rent remained at about 30 percent in both years.Mark Levine, a city councilman who represents Upper Manhattan, will propose in a forthcoming white paper that money from a pied-à-terre tax should be dedicated to fixing the city’s public housing stock and to create affordable housing. “Even the Victorian-era robber barons who built all these mansions were living there,” Mr. Levine said.And because the city’s property tax system is antiquated, co-ops and condos are not taxed at their true market value, but on the income generated by similar rental buildings. A property tax reform commission is currently studying how to revise the city’s tax system.“I would argue they need to pay more than the baseline property taxes because the value of the real estate depends on the viability of New York City, the quality of the public services, and they are not effectively carrying their weight for that,” said James Parrott, director of economic and fiscal policies at the Center for New York City Affairs at the New School, and a member of the property tax reform commission.New York City is the second largest location of Mr. Griffin’s firm, Citadel. The company has been expanding in the city, recently acquiring more space at an under-construction Midtown office tower on Park Avenue; company officials suggested that commercial real estate taxes, combined with the taxes that Mr. Griffin will pay on his apartment, amounted to a significant contribution to New York City. Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for Mr. Griffin, declined to comment.Mr. Parrott, who wrote a 2014 paper for the Fiscal Policy Institute that was the basis of Mr. Hoylman’s legislation, estimated that Mr. Griffin would have to pay $8.9 million per year if there was a pied-à-terre tax.New York State does have a so-called mansion tax, a 1 percent tax levied on homes that sell for $1 million or more. That tax brought in $1.1 billion for New York City from the 2016 fiscal year to present, according to the Department of Finance.Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat who says income inequality will be the most important issue leading to the 2020 presidential election, has called for an expansion of the mansion tax, using Mr. Griffin’s apartment purchase as an example of what is “fundamentally broken in our country.”Yet some people believe that this is not the right time for a pied-à-terre tax in New York. Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, said many wealthy people had made the decision to leave the state after President Trump’s tax legislation reduced the amount of deductions that can be taken for state income and property taxes to $10,000, an amount easily surpassed in higher-tax states like New York.“To be proposing more taxes on the wealthy in this environment is playing with fire,” Ms. Wylde said. “The question is whether we think having wealthy people with a residence in New York is important considering their tax and philanthropic output.”Mr. Parrott believes the risk of the ultra-wealthy fleeing the city is massively overstated.“The risk is nil. For $9 million a year that guy’s going to go to Cleveland instead?” he said of Mr. Griffin. “I don’t think so.”William H. Gross, the “Bond King,” is going into retirement.Mr. Gross, who co-founded the investment firm Pimco in 1971 and built it into a $2 trillion colossus, entertained investors with quirky pronouncements over many decades. He left unceremoniously in a nasty dispute in 2014, and joined Janus Henderson Investments, which announced his retirement on Monday.“I’ve had a wonderful ride for over 40 years in my career,” he said in a statement, “trying at all times to put client interests first while inventing and reinventing active bond management along the way.”At Pimco, Mr. Gross controlled more bond money than anyone in the world. He advised the Treasury on the role of subprime mortgage bonds in the dark days of the financial crisis, and his colorful metaphors often enlivened the otherwise dreary discourse about fixed-income investing.In 2011, for example, he told me that investors were like complacent frogs sitting in a pot of slowly heating water.“Bond investors are receiving almost nothing for their money, and the situation is getting worse and worse,” he said. “But they’ve gotten used to it. They don’t realize how bad it is. And before they know it, well, they’ll be cooked.”His utterances in those days often moved markets, and his early-morning yoga ritual at Newport Beach, Calif., was widely chronicled.Early in his tenure at Pimco, Mr. Gross was known as a skillful bond trader who pioneered the use of mathematical models to eke out steady profits. He also gained fame as an analyst of broad economic trends, which he used to inform the firm’s investment strategy.He had a homespun style that he used in books aimed at a popular audience, like “Everything You’ve Heard About Investing Is Wrong!: How to Profit in the Coming Post-Bull Markets.” In that 1997 book, he said the solid returns produced by bonds would shield investors from the disappointments of the busts that inevitably followed boom markets in stocks.But Mr. Gross has not been a dominant figure in finance since he was forced out of Pimco amid accusations that he had mismanaged the firm, where he was a co-chief investment officer. Mr. Gross and Pimco settled a lawsuit over the dispute in 2017.While he set high expectations for himself, his second career at Janus Henderson was not impressive.In a 2016 interview with The New York Times, he said explicitly that he viewed himself as competing directly with the fund managers at Pimco. “My whole evening is dependent on whether I beat them,” he said. “You see, I have to prove it all over again. Every day.”Yet a quick look at the numbers suggests he may have been disheartened by his recent performance. Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained.Through most of Mr. Gross’s time at Pimco, however, his performance was splendid. In the 15 years through February 2014, for example, Pimco Total Return posted an annualized gain of 6.68 percent, versus 5.19 percent for the average intermediate-term bond fund. And his risk-adjusted returns over the long term were much better than average.Over the past 20 years, Janus Henderson said, Mr. Gross had donated $800 million to various philanthropies. He will continue to manage his own assets, which are considerable, and those of his family foundation, which is valued at $390 million.Although he was often revered as something of an oracle in his years at Pimco, his frequent pronouncements on the state of the markets and the economy were not always on the mark, even in his heyday.In May 2009, when the stock market was just entering a bull market that has lasted nearly 10 years, Mr. Gross told me that the market rested on precarious foundations. He warned against “jumping into a stock market that’s 35 percent higher than it was three months ago.”He predicted moderate “single-digit returns” for the next decade, well short of the double-digit returns that stock investors actually received.To the Editor:Re “Treat China Like the Danger It Is” (Op-Ed, Jan. 15):Much of Derek Scissors and Daniel Blumenthal’s arguments rest on intellectual property theft and protectionist policies, which do indeed cost American businesses billions. But this emphasis is increasingly outdated: As China struggles to avoid the middle-income trap, it has begun to open higher-value-added services and industries to foreign investment.An exaggerated anti-China sentiment obscures belated but real reforms on market access and intellectual property protections, and the opportunities they promise.Just as problematic is the article’s admission that decoupling depends on the cooperation of American allies. Very few countries are willing to choose the United States over China when it comes to trade and investment. One only need look to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which despite American opposition has been joined by crucial allies like Britain and Australia.The best way to compete with China is to build on America’s traditional strengths of innovation, integration and openness to the world.Scott M. MoorePhiladelphiaThe writer is director of the Penn Global China Program at the University of Pennsylvania.The strong economic growth of mid-2018 — the stock market soared, hiring picked up and consumer spending surged — reflected, in part, the benefits of a boost in fiscal stimulus. The Trump administration pushed for, and got, a huge tax cut, and then, to give the economy even more oomph, Congress passed budgets for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 that included a rare bipartisan agreement to juice spending for defense and social programs. But the effects of all that stimulus are starting to wane, and problems are emerging that make a recession in 2020 look more and more likely.Over the next few days, as American companies report earnings for 2018, the effects of all that spending will be clear: Corporate tax cuts increased profits last year, and those results will be hard to beat this year. The tax cuts were supposed to trigger an increase in investment, productivity growth and profit margins — which might have nourished future growth — but that failed to materialize. Instead, big corporations authorized a record-breaking $1 trillion in stock buybacks in 2018, according to Goldman Sachs, and made good on those announcements by returning their tax cuts to shareholders. Sure, the buybacks bumped up stock prices, but that proved fleeting, especially after the tax increases, supply-chain disruptions and uncertainty associated with tariffs and trade tensions.Individuals, too, are likely to be disappointed this year, when tax refunds as a result of the 2017 tax legislation fail to meet expectations. Many people did not withhold enough to accommodate changes in the laws, a confusion that is compounded by understaffing at the Internal Revenue Service and delays created by the just-ended government shutdown. Americans count on those refunds to pay down debt and finance big-ticket purchases. When that money isn’t forthcoming, they may be disappointed and angry. Finally, the United States isn’t likely to see any further increase in government spending — an important source of last year’s stimulus — in the current fiscal year. The Republicans have regained religion about deficits since they blew a hole in the budget with tax cuts, while former Tea Party Republicans are looking for cuts to agencies and social programs. The result is that federal spending is expected to decline later this year, and those losses will compound as we move into 2020.The length of the shutdown — 35 days — is also important, as federal employees try to catch up with assignments they missed during that time. The only benchmark for comparison was the 21-day shutdown from December 1995 to January 1996. Then, as now, contractors were especially hard hit; it can take weeks or months to get up and running again. Some of their losses were never recouped. But in 1995 and early 1996, the Federal Reserve made a cut to short-term interest rates, giving an extra lift to the economy once the shutdown ended. The tech bubble was also forming. The subsequent jump in financial markets was so powerful that it prompted Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman at the time, to worry openly about “irrational exuberance.”No one is really worried about exuberance, rational or otherwise, right now. Government spending is playing out, the Fed has been sidelined and doesn’t have a lot of room to cut rates, global growth is slowing and political leaders at home and abroad are at one another’s throats. All that has raised the risk of a 2020 recession.Before that happens, Congress and the president should do whatever they can to sustain economic growth, while we still have growth to sustain. I have been a fiscal hawk my entire professional career, and I don’t usually support deficits in times of prosperity. But there is a small window of opportunity for policymakers to act, while interest rates remain low and we have some wiggle room on taxes. Once a slowdown begins, tax revenues fall, automatic stabilizers such as unemployment insurance kick in, and the need for social services and short-term stimulus intensifies. Then, it may be more difficult to carry out the large-scale investments we need to fundamentally lift long-term growth.For now, the United States can actually afford to pay for investments in its economy. The most important investment is human capital, such as education and training for workers, but spending for that is controlled primarily by state and local governments, not Washington. Federal policymakers do have the power to invest in repairing and upgrading infrastructure, paid for by gradual increases in taxes. This has the potential to increase productivity growth, stimulate more private investment, gain bipartisan support and connect, instead of further divide, rural and urban Americans.Even that may not be enough to generate the investment desperately needed in the private sector, if the uncertainty in Washington isn’t resolved. That requires a heavier political lift. There is a major test coming up. Congress has the power to avert another government shutdown on Feb. 15, even if a border security compromise doesn’t satisfy the president. If Congress exerts its authority, that will represent an important step in the right direction.Diane Swonk is the chief economist for the audit, tax and advisory firm Grant Thornton.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.MOSCOW — Russia has become a world-class saver. So much gold has piled up in its central bank that Russia surpassed China last year to become the world’s fifth-largest holder of gold.The International Monetary Fund often has to badger developing nations to bulk up foreign currency reserves. Russia has $472 billion in reserves, more than the country’s combined public and foreign debt of $453 billion and nearly three times what the I.M.F. recommends.Economists don’t consider either of these eye-popping sums of savings a good thing. They reflect, in part, how investment has lagged in Russia and how Western sanctions have dulled its economy. But the lode is also making for an odd back-to-the-future moment of state-directed economic activity as Russia shifts policy and aims to spend about $100 billion on big infrastructure projects.The new drive, promoted last month at an economic forum paradoxically named for Yegor T. Gaidar, a former prime minister who championed privatization, is a full-throttle build-and-spend effort to rev Russia’s way to stable growth. Oligarchs are among the businessmen who have been publicly ordered to rally, with moneyed enthusiasm, behind the plan.Known by the mouthful National Goals and Strategic Objective of the Russian Federation Until 2024, the program is not called a “five-year plan,” the centralized tool that the Soviet Union relied on to set economic goals and direct state spending. But it will last five years, with the first outlays expected in the first half of this year.“Nobody is hiding it now,” said Aleksandr Abramov, a professor at the Higher School of Economics who attended the forum. “State spending is the economic theme of 2019.”Clemens Grafe, the chief Russia economist at Goldman Sachs, described it as “a very different development model” from what Russia has pursued for years under President Vladimir V. Putin. The government, he said, is shifting from encouraging consumer spending with public-sector pay increases to pouring money into roads, ports and hospitals.Since 2014, the year of its disputed annexation of Crimea, which spurred Western reprisals, Russia has languished in recession or realized only minuscule growth. The economy grew 2.3 percent in 2018, the state statistics agency said on Monday.At the same time, the Russian government and companies have accumulated vast savings. By law, taxes from the export of oil, which has been keeping the economy afloat, must be saved when the price is above $40 per barrel, so money is ending up in sovereign wealth funds.American and European sanctions have also, paradoxically, fattened Russia’s piggy bank. The sanctions prevented the country’s largest banks and oil companies from rolling over loans from Western banks, so companies paid down debt as it came due, a process known as deleveraging.The result has been a piling up of savings and little investment. “They are pulling resources out of the economy,” Mr. Grafe, the Goldman economist, said.The goal of the new program is to increase capital investments to 25 percent of gross domestic product, from about 20 percent today. Mr. Putin is promoting this, and his minister of finance, Anton G. Siluanov, told an audience of economists at the Gaidar Forum that the state was enforcing a new style of management.“Our current situation is different from the previous six years in that we are now building a vertically integrated system of management,” Mr. Siluanov said. “It will come from the top and go to the bottom.”Tweaks to tax, pension and budget policy will fund the investment projects. Russia last year reduced pension spending by elevating the retirement age by five years and raised its value-added tax by two percentage points starting this year, to 20 percent, both shifts meant to free up money for infrastructure spending.Parliament in recent months changed the law imposing a balanced primary budget, or the budget before interest costs, to allow a deficit of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product when oil prices are above the $40 per barrel reference price, a measure also intended to increase spending.Government officials say they have been consulting with business owners and requesting detailed investment plans. It’s not clear whether this will go smoothly or advance with fear and bullying.The Kremlin expects wealthy businessmen to respond to its policies with what it defines as patriotism — and to resist has been disastrous, financially and personally, for some. Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man, spent a decade in prison after financing the political opposition and arguing against higher oil taxes.Just before the Gaidar Forum, Aleksei A. Mordashov, the principal shareholder and chairman of the Russian steel company Severstal, wrote in an opinion piece that he and fellow industrialists should join in willingly.They should not “point to foreign difficulties and not delay investments and transforming your companies ‘until better times,’” he wrote in Vedomosti, a Russian business newspaper.Mr. Mordashov announced a plan to invest $1.4 billion annually in his steel mills. Other Russian industrialists have also quietly increased their spending plans, suggesting the arm twisting is working.Economists, though, are cautioning that greater government involvement in the economy is a rake Russia has stepped on before.“They say: ‘The government has the money. The government will pay, for everything,’” said Yuri Danilov, a research fellow at the Russian Academy of Sciences. “This is a very detrimental school of thought.”Among the guests President Trump invited to the State of the Union on Tuesday was Roy James, the plant manager of a sawmill in Vicksburg, Miss., whose appearance was intended to highlight a tax provision that the White House credits with saving Mr. James’s job.But whether the tax incentive actually saved the sawmill is unclear. Publicly available evidence does not substantiate the claim, and White House officials did not provide information on Tuesday that would substantiate it. While the White House highlighted Mr. James in a news release before the speech, Mr. Trump never mentioned him — or the provision that the White House claims saved his job.[Fact Check: What President Trump Got Right and Wrong in His Speech]Mr. James’s invitation was intended to call attention to a once-obscure portion of the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul, known as opportunity zones, meant to drive investment to parts of America that continue to struggle economically. The 2017 law offered potentially lucrative reductions in capital gains tax bills for investors who put money into projects inside certain areas that state officials designate as opportunity zones.Mr. James worked for 26 years at what used to be called the Anderson-Tully hardwood sawmill. Vicksburg Forest Products bought the mill last year and laid off all 158 workers. It then began refitting the mill to accommodate a different type of lumber and eventually rehired some workers. The plant now employs 125 people.It is possible that the mill could have been closed by its previous owners if it had not been sold, costing all 158 workers their jobs, rather than a smaller number. But Anderson-Tully officials had not previously indicated to the state that they planned to close the plant, though state records indicate that Anderson-Tully had been seeking for months to sell a tract of land it owned nearby. Local officials were surprised by the news of its sale and pending layoffs, the Vicksburg Post reported in March.A representative for Vicksburg Forest Products said late Tuesday that the tax provision was a “key reason” it invested in the sawmill.But at the time the company agreed to buy the mill, there were no guarantees that the property would qualify for the new federal incentives.The planned sale of the mill was announced in March, several days before the State of Mississippi proposed designating the area as an opportunity zone. The Treasury Department did not approve that designation until April.The new owners have been praised by state and federal officials for their investment — but throughout the sale announcements, in March, May and June, no one appears to have publicly mentioned the Trump tax cut provision. News reports did not begin to cite opportunity zones as a factor in the mill investment until December, when a Trump administration official visited Vicksburg to promote the project.Vicksburg Forest Products is managed by Billy Van Devender — a wealthy timber baron and philanthropist who donated $2,700 to Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.An email to him on Tuesday was returned by his son, William Van Devender Jr. He wrote on Tuesday evening that “the designation of Vicksburg as an Opportunity Zone was one of the key reasons Vicksburg Forest Products bought, reopened, and invested in the former Anderson-Tully sawmill.”“Last April, Vicksburg was designated an opportunity zone,” he added. “Our company purchased the mill the following month, knowing about the economic advantages an opportunity zone offered. In June, we announced we were reopening the mill and planned to hire 125 employees.”Mr. Van Devender did not respond to a follow-up question about whether the company had advance knowledge of the state’s pending opportunity zone designation in March, when it first agreed to buy the mill. He also did not directly address the question of how the investment “saved” jobs when the company actually reduced employment at the mill.The circumstances surrounding the sawmill’s ability to claim the tax incentive highlight critics’ fear that the opportunity zone incentives could end up rewarding economic development that would have occurred anyway — while providing rich investors with tax breaks.“The best-case scenario is they’ve given a huge capital gains tax break to continue a sawmill,” said Seth Hanlon, a former economic policy adviser to President Barack Obama who is now a senior fellow at the liberal Center for American Progress in Washington, “but with fewer employees.”A spokesman for Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi said in an email: “Gov. Bryant chose these 100 tracts around the State of Mississippi to encourage the exact type of investment that has been seen with the Vicksburg Forest Products sawmill. This is an American success story where more than 100 Mississippians now have jobs thanks to the creation of opportunity zones. We hope this type of investment will continue in other opportunity zone tracts throughout the state.”The White House, in announcing Mr. Trump’s guests, said that Mr. James had worked at the sawmill for 26 years when he was told that it would close.“Thankfully, last year, Vicksburg was designated an opportunity zone through provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” the White House wrote. “The plant soon reopened and Roy was hired to oversee the entire facility.”Ben Carson, the Housing and Urban Development secretary whom Mr. Trump has appointed to lead an administration task force on opportunity zones, went further at an appearance in Vicksburg in December.Mr. Carson said the mill was “just an incredible sight here,” The Vicksburg Post reported, “because this is one of the first places to actually take advantage of the opportunity zones and opportunity funds. Had it not been for that program, it would very likely that this place would have closed down and those jobs gone away.”Mr. Trump did not refer to opportunity zones in his speech on Tuesday. He only briefly mentioned the tax law, as part of a section boasting about the strength of the economy.“Companies are coming back to our country in large numbers,” he said, “thanks to our historic reductions in taxes and regulations.”Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, said Friday that it was committed to building a factory in Wisconsin after a conversation between the company’s chairman and President Trump.In a statement, the company said it “is moving forward with our planned construction of a Gen 6 fab facility,” a type of plant that turns out displays for consumer products.Foxconn did not say when the conversation between Mr. Trump and Foxconn’s chairman, Terry Gou, had taken place or who had initiated it.Mr. Trump hailed the announcement Friday in a Twitter post, calling it “great news.”The development followed a tumultuous few days in which Foxconn sent mixed signals about its proposed $10 billion facility in Wisconsin — an investment that Mr. Trump announced in 2017 at a White House event with Mr. Gou.It was not immediately clear how many manufacturing jobs the company would ultimately create. The project, with a promise of 13,000 jobs, became a focus of political contention in Wisconsin over the $4 billion in tax credits and other inducements that it involved over a 15-year period.On Wednesday, Louis Woo, the special assistant to Mr. Gou, told Reuters that the company was reconsidering whether it would make advanced TV screens at the site, citing the high cost of making them in the United States.“In terms of TV, we have no place in the U.S.,” Mr. Woo told Reuters. “We can’t compete.”The comments took Wisconsin lawmakers by surprise, and prompted concern among local officials that the company might not devote the facility to large-scale production, after all.After Mr. Woo’s initial statement, the company insisted that it was not retreating from its plan to build a factory but was re-evaluating what products would be made there. Mr. Woo later told The New York Times that while the company still planned to hire 13,000 workers, he expected that only 25 percent of them would be focused on manufacturing. “The remainder of our work force will be knowledge workers,” he added.Mr. Woo said that “the global market environment has necessitated a reconsideration of which technology” would be produced in Wisconsin.The company did not say Friday whether the expected mix of its work force would change after the conversation with the president.Taking questions from reporters at the State Capitol on Friday, Gov. Tony Evers said he had spoken with Mr. Woo before Friday’s announcement and said it was a reiteration of previous commitments, not a shift.“Their message hasn’t changed much recently,” said Mr. Evers, a Democrat who took office last month. “But the fact of the matter is, it is different from what the original plan was.”Foxconn last year committed to building a Generation 6 facility. That plan was itself a step back from its original promise to build a Generation 10.5 plant, producing larger screens.Asked if he still thought Foxconn’s investment would produce 13,000 jobs, Mr. Evers said, “It’s likely not going to be tomorrow, I’ll tell you that.” The governor said the state would need to “continually monitor the progress and thinking that goes on” and noted that the state incentives were pegged to specific goals that Foxconn would need to achieve.Republicans who control Wisconsin’s Legislature welcomed the president’s intervention.“Our state has an ally in the White House,” said a statement from the Assembly’s speaker, Robin Vos, and the Senate’s majority leader, Scott Fitzgerald. “Southeast Wisconsin and the entire state will see an influx of manufacturing jobs and billions in investments.”But Mr. Woo’s comments to Reuters about the infeasibility of making liquid-crystal display panels have some lawmakers questioning whether the thousands of promised jobs will ever materialize.“They’re giving us the prospect of making cash payments to a company for the next 15 years for a factory that the company has admitted can’t be competitive in the marketplace,” Assemblyman Gordon Hintz, the Democratic minority leader, said in an interview. “That doesn’t sound like a good taxpayer investment.”Good Tuesday. Breaking: Karl Lagerfeld, the influential fashion designer and longtime creative director of Chanel, has died at 85. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Did McKinsey sell advice with a stake in the outcome?As McKinsey & Company advised some of the biggest companies in the world, the NYT reports, it may have had a vested interest in the outcome, through a little-known in-house hedge fund that holds stakes in some of the firm’s clients.Little about the fund, the McKinsey Investment Office, is public. A large part of its approximately $12.3 billion in holdings is “concealed behind a tangle of shell companies in an island tax haven in the English Channel,” the NYT reports. As a result, “any intersections between McKinsey’s consulting work and the fund’s investments are largely hidden.”The office took a stake in Valeant, the drug maker that was advised by McKinsey and is accused of improperly raising pharmaceutical prices. It also invested in Puerto Rican bonds while the firm advised the island on how to deal with its debt.McKinsey says there’s no conflict of interest.  It insists the office is run separately from its consulting operations, and that 90 percent of its funds are run by outside managers.But it faces increasing skepticism about that from Congress and in various lawsuits. “A federal judge in Virginia last month reopened a coal-company bankruptcy case after learning that McKinsey had not disclosed, as required by law, that it was also among the company’s secured creditors, through MIO,” the NYT reports. Trump’s plan to fund his wall heads to courtA coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, sued the Trump administration yesterday over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on a border wall, Charlie Savage and Robert Pear of the NYT report:• “The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute.”• “Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border.”• “The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests.”• “Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers.”Will more U.S.-China trade talks deliver a deal?After a series of discussions between America and China in Beijing last week that President Trump called “very productive,” negotiators reopen their conversations in Washington this week.What’s happening: Negotiations kick off today. Then on Thursday and Friday, Vice Premier Liu He of China will meet with the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, according to Bloomberg.What to expect: The Trump administration “is racing to strike a deal that will result in long-term reforms,” according to the WSJ, which notes that such a pact would “prove that tariffs are an effective battering ram to open markets around the world.”But it’s not done yet. Despite Mr. Trump tweeting that “big progress being made on soooo many different fronts!” in these trade negotiations so far, the WSJ reports that “people briefed on the negotiations said big outstanding differences remain.”More trade news: Why Mr. Trump may want to keep car tariffs in his back pocket. HSBC says the U.S.-China trade war is why it missed its profit targets. Theresa May scrambles as parties splinterWith just over a week to go before a crucial vote, the British prime minister is facing shifting groupings in Parliament and a difficult diplomatic mission to the E.U.Britain’s parties are splitting. Seven lawmakers have left Labour, the main opposition party, and formed a new Independent Group that might push for another referendum on Brexit. While initial reactions were largely unimpressed, the Telegraph reports that their ranks could swell, and that some members of Mrs. May’s Conservative party may also join.And Mrs. May is running out of time. There are nine days left until a parliamentary vote that could seize control of the Brexit process from her. So this week, Bloomberg reports, she is mounting a last-ditch diplomatic push:• “The British prime minister is planning to meet European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker this week.”• “Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt will travel to Berlin, Brussels and Copenhagen, while Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay is continuing his dialogue with the E.U.’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier.”• “Attorney General Geoffrey Cox — a key voice in the Brexit debate inside Cabinet — will set out in a speech expected on Tuesday how the most contentious part of the Brexit deal, the so-called backstop plan for the Irish border, could be changed.”But the E.U. isn’t budging yet. “We are happy to revisit anything that would clarify the situation without reopening the withdrawal agreement,” a spokesman for the European Commission, Margaritis Schinas, said.More Brexit news: The Japanese automaker Honda plans to close its plant in Swindon, England, which employs 3,500 people, though it didn’t blame Brexit. Wall Street banks are moving out of London — but not to any single European financial capital.Is Facebook a ‘digital gangster’?A British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report yesterday that accuses Facebook of breaking data privacy and competition laws and calls for tighter regulations, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports:• “The parliamentary report recommends the creation of a British watchdog to oversee the technology industry, similar to the country’s approach to regulating media companies.”• “Companies like Facebook should not be allowed to behave like ‘digital gangsters’ in the online world, considering themselves to be ahead of and beyond the law,” the report argues.• Mr. Satariano also notes that the report “suggested legally requiring Facebook and other large internet platforms to remove what the government determines to be harmful content, or risk fines or other punishments.” Facebook may not be worried. The committee can’t change regulations on its own, Mr. Satariano notes, while Alex Webb of Bloomberg Opinion points out that “Britain’s divorce from the European Union could seriously impair its capacity to rein in the giants of U.S. tech.”More Facebook news: Why it’s getting serious about building its own A.I. chips. And why researchers are worried about how Facebook promotes Groups.What’s really in your index fund?Index funds, with low fees and broad exposure to the markets, are supposed to be one of the best ways to play the stock market. But Robert Jackson Jr., an S.E.C. commissioner, and Steven Davidoff Solomon of the University of California, Berkeley, point out problems with those funds in an NYT Op-Ed:• “The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors.”• “There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted.”• “That’s why we’re calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans’ investment dollars are allocated.”The corporate V.C. gold rushIndependent venture capital funds like Sequoia and Andreessen Horowitz may grab headlines, but corporate investment funds have quietly been investing faster than ever, according to a report by CB Insights. Here are some highlights:Corporate V.C.s broke records in 2018, putting $53 billion into 2,740 deals worldwide, a high on both measures.They tended to spend more than noncorporate V.C.s. The average corporate venture deal size was $26.3 million, compared to $21.8 million for a standard V.C. transaction.Companies are rushing to set up funds. The number of corporate V.C. funds investing for the first time reached 264 last year, up 35 percent from 2017 and over 300 percent from 2013.China is playing a big role. Two of the top five most active corporate V.C. funds last year were Baidu.ventures and Legend Capital, despite trade tensions between Washington and Beijing. (The most active was GV, Alphabet’s early-stage venture arm.)Exclusive: Kasowitz hires a top antitrust lawyerThe law firm Kasowitz Benson Torres will announce as soon as today that it has hired Kevin Arquit, a leading antitrust lawyer in the U.S., from Weil, Gotshal & Manges to lead its antitrust and competition team.Mr. Arquit’s background: He worked at the Federal Trade Commission from 1986 to 1992, where he eventually become the director of its bureau of competition. Then he went into private practice, working on matters like DirecTV’s sale to AT&T and the defense of the poultry producer Pilgrim’s Pride in a price-fixing lawsuit.What’s ahead in antitrust: Mr. Arquit told DealBook that he thinks things are going to become more aggressive.• He sees more companies going to court against regulators like the Justice Department and the F.T.C., which he says have become more demanding.• “In some of those cases, it’s become so extreme,” he said, pointing to the Justice Department’s handling of the AT&T-Time Warner deal. He added, “The only way to deal with that is to push back.”Revolving doorKen Hitchner, the chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs’s Asia Pacific operations, is reportedly retiring.Rod Rosenstein is expected to leave the Justice Department next month.Apple hired Sam Jadallah, the C.E.O. of a failed smart lock start-up, reportedly to lead a smart-home initiative.The speed readDeals• Two of the biggest investors in SoftBank’s Vision Fund, Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi, are reportedly unhappy with how it’s being run. And credit ratings agencies are worried about SoftBank’s debt levels. (WSJ, Business Insider)• Navient, the student loan company, rejected a $3.2 billion takeover bid by Canyon Capital and Platinum Equity. (CNBC)• Tiger Global has reportedly sold its stake in Barclays, leaving the British bank without a key ally as it fends off the activist investor Edward Bramson. (FT)• How Mithril Capital, part of Peter Thiel’s Silicon Valley empire, turned into a mess. (Recode)• Might James Dolan finally sell the New York Knicks? (Daily News)Politics and policy• Barack Obama is quietly advising potential Democratic presidential contenders — but is unlikely to endorse one. (NYT)• How Senator Elizabeth Warren’s wealth tax would work. (Upshot)• Big-money Democratic donors reportedly favor Joe Biden for president in 2020. (Fox Business)• Senator Kamala Harris defended her support of the Green New Deal and Medicare for All, but said she wasn’t a democratic socialist. (NYT)Tech• A shake-up at Apple suggests services, not smartphones, are its future focus. (WSJ)• How Amazon might expand without a New York campus. And how it’s rebooting its movie division. (WSJ, NYT)• Huawei’s founder called U.S. charges against the company and his daughter “politically motivated.” Ericsson’s C.E.O. said that fears about Huawei’s hardware could slow down Europe’s 5G rollout, but British intelligence officials say the company’s equipment poses only a “manageable risk” of Chinese spying. (NYT, FT)• Australia blamed a “sophisticated state actor” for hacking its Parliament’s computer system. Meanwhile Chinese and Iranian hackers have renewed attacks on U.S. companies. (NYT)Best of the rest• U.S. companies now have to disclose operating leases on their balance sheets, potentially adding $3 trillion to corporate America’s liabilities. (CNBC)• Why Senator Marco Rubio’s plan to tax stock buybacks might be seriously flawed — and why they will be a huge topic for the 2020 elections. (National Review, Axios)• Americans are defaulting on car loans in record numbers. (Axios)• Contradictory data is confusing economists. (WSJ)• Most Americans, in every state except Vermont, would fail the U.S. citizenship exam. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________No, this isn’t about Fannie Mae. And don’t get confused with Jed Clampett’s hayseed daughter Elly May on “The Beverly Hillbillies,” either. It’s Ellie Mae, the publicly traded provider of mortgage-processing software-as-a-service to American home lenders.The investment firm Thoma Bravo is paying $3.7 billion to acquire the Pleasanton, Calif.-based Ellie Mae. That’s more than 25 times the software company’s projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for this year, according to estimates collated by Refinitiv, and a nearly 50 percent premium to its stock’s latest 30-day closing average.It’s a pretty price to pay for exposure to a market that is being buffeted by rising interest rates, slipping home-price gains and worries about affordability. The Mortgage Bankers Association believes that United States home-loan originations declined by a little over 5 percent last year to $1.6 trillion.But such headwinds make the cost benefits of outsourced automation all the more attractive to lenders. Mortgage loan processing has always been tedious, and new regulations imposed in the wake of the subprime-mortgage crisis only added to the burden.Ellie Mae estimates that the cost of making a new mortgage loan more than doubled between 2007 and 2017, to just over $8,000. It claims to be able to reduce those costs by about a third. More than 2,300 lenders have adopted the company’s software and used it to close more than 2.5 million loans. The goal of the 22-year-old business is to “automate everything automatable.” It assessed its own market share at 35 percent in 2017, and its target is for more than half.The company, led by Jonathan Corr, isn’t immune to broader trends, of course. Full-year profit for 2018 is projected to fall by about half from 2017, while revenue growth is expected to slow to 6 percent this year from 15 percent last year, according to data from Refinitiv. But it has no debt on its balance sheet, giving a private-equity buyer room to leverage its returns, even if not to the stretched levels possible in some industries.And investors seem to believe the sky is the limit for cloud-based software services. That may explain why Ellie Mae’s stock traded slightly above the offer price for much of the day on Thursday, suggesting that Thoma Bravo’s $99-a-share offer may not be the final word.ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Saudi Arabia’s crown prince has pledged $20 billion worth of investments in Pakistan to shore up the country’s struggling economy while strengthening bilateral ties at a time when Islamabad is trying to revive its global standing.The pledges made Sunday evening — about double what had been expected — would also help Saudi Arabia’s economy by setting up infrastructure, including an oil refinery, to secure Pakistan as a market for Saudi crude oil. The promised investments are nonbinding, however, and whether they will materialize remains to be seen. Riyadh has a long history of over-promising to please allies.Kicking off a tour of Asia with a visit to Pakistan this week, the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, held separate meetings with Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, and the country’s army chief, Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, endorsing the country’s two levers of power. Pakistani security officials gave glowing reviews of the trip, which they said was an important opportunity to strengthen military ties with Saudi Arabia, a relationship that has come under strain in recent years.Mr. Khan and General Bajwa met Prince Mohammed as his plane landed at Islamabad’s airport Sunday night to a 21-gun salute, and the prime minister then personally drove the prince to the capital in his Mercedes sedan.For his part, Prince Mohammed gave a strong endorsement of Mr. Khan at a dinner held in his honor Sunday night. Mr. Khan faces increasing opposition at home while Pakistan’s alliance with the United States has weakened under President Trump, who accuses the country of harboring terrorists to use as military and foreign policy tools. Pakistan denies those charges.“Pakistan is facing a really great future today, with a great leadership,” Prince Mohammed said, noting that the visit was his first trip east since becoming crown prince, and that Pakistan was the first stop on his itinerary. “We believe Pakistan is going to be a very, very important country in the coming future, and we want to be sure that we are part of that.”Such an endorsement is crucial to Pakistan, as the crown prince is seen as close to Mr. Trump.The prince also prioritized strengthening the two countries’ security ties, which have come under strain in recent years.Mr. Khan took office in August, taking over from the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Ties between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia grew strained under Mr. Sharif after Pakistan’s Parliament voted down a resolution to send troops to help Saudi Arabia’s military campaign in Yemen.Pakistan’s military is seen as one of the most sophisticated in the region, while Saudi Arabia’s is not as well trained or effective.Saudi Arabia, which like Pakistan is a majority-Sunni country, is fighting Houthi rebels in Yemen, which Riyadh says are backed by Shiite-majority Iran. But Pakistan has struggled to walk the narrow line between Saudi Arabia and Iran, the two sectarian power centers of the Middle East, trying to balance a delicate alliance with each country.Saudi Arabia appeared bent on driving a wedge between Iran and Pakistan. In a televised news conference on Monday, Adel al-Jubeir, the Saudi minister of state for foreign affairs who is traveling with Prince Mohammed, lashed out at Iran, calling the country the world’s “chief sponsor of terrorism.”As a gesture of good will, Saudi Arabia said it would release some 2,100 Pakistanis in prisons across the kingdom. The issue is a sensitive one: Thousands of Pakistanis employed in Saudi Arabia are often denied due process in the country’s justice system, according to a recent report by Human Rights Watch.Prince Mohammed also plans to visit India and China on his tour, an effort to bolster relations with Asian countries as alliances in the West have come under fire after the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi.The crown prince headed to New Delhi later on Monday amid an escalating dispute between India and Pakistan about a suicide attack in Kashmir that killed 40 Indian soldiers last week. Prince Mohammed is expected to play a mediating role between the countries after India accused Pakistan of being behind the attack and vowed to retaliate.Looking to broaden Pakistan’s alliances, Mr. Khan enthusiastically courted Prince Mohammed soon after becoming prime minister. Mr. Khan gave a keynote address at an investment conference in Riyadh in October, even after dozens of attendees and sponsors withdrew from the event amid a swirl of allegations that the prince had ordered the murder of Mr. Khashoggi.Desperate to stabilize its debt-ridden economy and to fend off a crippling deficit in foreign-exchange reserves, Pakistan has looked for support from China, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. It is also in talks with the International Monetary Fund. Pakistan holds foreign reserves worth $8.2 billion, enough for just two months of imports for a country that relies heavily on goods from abroad.But the pledges made this week did not inspire confidence in all quarters.Farrukh Saleem, a political scientist and columnist based in Islamabad, said he did not expect the Saudi investments to have “any noticeable impact on Pakistan.”“Essentially,” he said, “the figures revolve around an oil refinery.”Distressed America is Wall Street’s hottest new investment vehicle.Hedge funds, investment banks and money managers are trying to raise tens of billions of dollars this year for so-called opportunity funds, a creation of President Trump’s 2017 tax package meant to steer money to poor areas by offering potentially large tax breaks.Little noticed at first, the provision has unleashed a flurry of investment activity by wealthy families, some of Wall Street’s biggest investors and other investors who want to put money into projects ostensibly meant to help struggling Americans. The ranks of those starting such funds include Anthony Scaramucci, the New York hedge fund executive who served briefly as Mr. Trump’s communications director.More than 80 of the funds have sprung up since January 2018, even though the Trump administration has not finalized regulations governing them. Managers of the funds are seeking to raise huge sums of money by pitching investors on a combination of outsize returns and a feel-good role in fighting poverty.The flood of capital is raising hopes as well as concerns. Those who championed the provision, which provides for a hefty tax break on long-term investments, believe the money can help distressed towns and neighborhoods that are still feeling the effects of the financial crisis and have barely benefited from the nine-year economic expansion. Skeptics worry that the funds will mostly target real estate and other projects that probably would have attracted investment even without the tax break, and may not deliver the returns being dangled.“I don’t think these are going to have the impact that people think they are,” said Lawrin Van Keuren, who oversees real estate investments for the money management firm controlled by the family of Fred Hayman, a founder of the luxury retailer Giorgio Beverly Hills. “We are in a wait-and-see mode.”The provision that created the funds was added to the tax law by Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and had been supported by Democrats and Republicans in previous legislation. It lowers capital gains taxes — potentially dramatically — for investors who finance projects in about 8,700 so-called opportunity zones spread across the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.Local officials selected the zones from a group of areas deemed eligible for the designation under a federal formula that factors in income and poverty levels. The federal government has not finished setting guidelines for what types of projects qualify or what information fund managers must provide to investors and to the government.The designated areas include heavily distressed tracts in cities like Detroit and Gary, Ind. But some zones are in gentrifying areas like the old downtown section of Las Vegas and parts of Long Island City, Queens, where Amazon said it would build a huge corporate campus before reversing course last week.The advent of the funds has spawned conferences around the country and has drawn interest from a variety of financial players. So far, most of the funds have focused on real estate investments. Many of the Wall Street funds are geared toward major metropolitan areas on the East and West Coasts, particularly New York City. That has fueled concern that the tax break could help regions that already enjoy substantial investment.Some impact investors — whose aim is to make money while funding projects that bring about social or economic benefits — are targeting their funds toward areas in the Southeast and industrial Midwest. And several impact investors are working with philanthropists to try to establish accountability standards for the funds that the federal government does not yet require, to address issues like the quality of jobs created in poor areas. The goal for impact investors in opportunity funds is to steer money to small businesses and other development that communities actually need, and not just to finance things that provide wealthy investors with the highest returns, like high-end hotels or condos.“I believe it really can be a great model to demonstrate the holistic, community-informed investments that can transform these distressed communities, while earning returns,” said Jim Sorenson, an entrepreneur based in Utah. Mr. Sorenson, who hosts an annual gathering of impact investors in Salt Lake City, devoted much of this year’s meeting, in February, to discussing the potential benefits of the zones. He joined several groups in announcing an effort to create a “guiding set of principles” for making such investments.Fran Seegull, the executive director of the U.S. Impact Investing Alliance and a conference attendee, emphasized the importance of laying out such principles early.“First movers will really shape the market,” Ms. Seegull said. “Those of us that care about community engagement, community solutions and metrics feel that it’s important to set the tone” for other investors.The concept of opportunity-zone funds is also captivating Wall Street. Its inclusion in the tax law was celebrated by some big technology investors seeking ways to capitalize on stock market winnings while keeping their tax bills low.The law permits an investor to roll over capital gains — proceeds from the sale of stocks or a home, for instance — into an opportunity-zone fund. The fund can then put the money in a zone by investing in, say, a condo project or affordable-housing units.An investor who keeps money in a such a fund for 10 years is able to exclude 15 percent of the original capital gain from taxation. And — potentially much more lucratively — the investor would not owe taxes on any gains that accrued if the investment increased in value in that time.Firms that have started such funds or are considering doing so include the major real estate development company Starwood Capital; EJF Capital, a hedge fund based in Arlington, Va.; and the real estate investment firm GTIS Partners. The biggest opportunity-zone fund announced so far is a $5 billion fund by CIM Group, a large real estate investment firm and property manager.The National Council of State Housing Agencies, which is tracking opportunity-zone funds, found that money managers and nonprofits had so far sought to raise over $18 billion, not including the CIM Group’s venture.This month, the real estate company Cushman & Wakefield began seeking investors for two apartment complexes planned for opportunity zones in San Juan, P.R. The company, which projects a rate of return on investment of 29 to 37 percent over five years, said it had received expressions of interest from over 100 investors.Joseph Douek, an investment manager who is also a member of the City Planning Commission in New York, hopes to raise $75 million for a new fund that will invest in housing developments in Brooklyn. Mr. Douek said he did not believe his roles as a fund manager and a planning commissioner member presented a conflict of interest. He said a conflict would arise only if a development project needed approval from the planning commission, something he did not expect he would need.Potential investors are looking beyond the coasts. McNally Capital, a Chicago investment firm backed by some heirs of the Rand McNally map company, is considering financing housing developments in the South and Midwest.One investor who has seized on the opportunity-zone-fund provision is Mr. Scaramucci, well known on Wall Street as a self-promoter who holds a glitzy annual hedge fund conference in Las Vegas. SkyBridge Capital, his investment firm, is aggressively pitching what it has billed as a $3 billion portfolio that will invest across the country.The fund, organized as a real estate investment trust, has gotten off to a rocky start. Just weeks after it was formally started in late December, it lost one of its partners, EJF Capital. Mr. Scaramucci then brought in Westport Capital Advisors, a real estate investing firm, to manage the fund. Despite the turmoil, dozens of potential investors attended a forum this month at the Manhattan offices of the law firm K&L Gates to hear Mr. Scaramucci discuss the benefits of opportunity zones.An initial marketing document for Mr. Scaramucci’s fund advertises the prospect of “meaningful social benefits” from investing in opportunity zones, including job creation and reduced poverty. It also details how a hypothetical investor could earn a return over 10 years that is triple what she would get from a similar fund that did not offer the new tax advantage.Brett Messing, SkyBridge’s president, said the projected return was “just math” that was not unique to the SkyBridge fund. He said the key to achieving that number was finding the right projects to invest in.“You’ve got to make money,” said Mr. Messing. “You have to generate gains and you have to preserve the tax benefits.”Affluent people have a new option for fending off the tax man: opportunity zone funds, which were included in the 2017 tax law as a way to help distressed neighborhoods.The funds are spurring interest among investors as a way of deferring and reducing capital gains. But whether they will substantially help needy communities is another question.Critics say that too often, the zones target the wrong districts. Amazon’s proposed corporate campus in Queens fell in areas designated as opportunity zones. The issue became moot when Amazon announced it would pull out of its planned New York headquarters.An Urban Institute analysis found that more than a quarter of designated zones already had relatively high levels of investment.Timothy Weaver, an assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, said the notion of tax-favored development zones has been tried before, often with lackluster results.“Money flows into the safe bets,” he said. He cited Louisville, Ky., where some areas that are already being gentrified have been designated as opportunity zones while some poorer tracts have not. “There’s no question,” he said, “that the primary beneficiaries of the program are the investors.”But in financial markets, opportunity funds are creating a buzz. “It’s arguably the most significant tax break in decades,” said Ben Miller, co-founder and chief executive of Fundrise, a real estate crowdfunding site that is sponsoring an opportunity fund.Based on recommendations from state governments, the United States Treasury has designated more than 8,700 eligible census tracts in urban, suburban and rural areas across the country.The opportunity funds are the vehicles for investing in these zones. The idea is that investors get federal tax breaks, while the neighborhoods get new businesses and upgraded properties, like apartment buildings, retail shops and hotels.But the rules are complex, and the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service didn’t clarify many details until October; more guidance is still expected. The recent government shutdown didn’t help.That said, opportunity funds are beginning to gain steam. The main questions for investors — such as what kind of investment gains are eligible for investment in an opportunity fund — generally have been answered, Mr. Miller said.“The benefits are pretty significant,” Mr. Miller said.Here’s how it worksOpportunity funds let investors postpone federal taxes on recent capital gains until the end of 2026; they can also reduce the taxable portion of those gains by as much as 15 percent, after seven years. Further, investors can eliminate taxes on additional gains from investing in the fund itself, if they hold the investment for 10 years.So, if you have investments that have appreciated, you can defer capital gains taxes by selling the investment and reinvesting the money into an opportunity fund within six months. Almost any sort of capital gain qualifies, whether from the sale of stocks or mutual funds, or other investments, including the sale of real estate or a business. (One investor in Fundrise’s opportunity fund, Mr. Miller said, invested a gain from the sale of a dialysis clinic.)Just the gains on an investment — rather than the entire proceeds of a sale — must be reinvested in the opportunity fund. That’s “highly unusual” and one reason opportunity funds may appear attractive, said Jeffrey Levine, chief executive of BluePrint Wealth Alliance.Say you sold stock for $500,000, and $300,000 of it was a gain. Just $300,000 must be rolled into the opportunity fund and the remaining $200,000 can be used as the seller wishes, according to an example provided by Tim Steffen, director of advanced planning at Baird Wealth Solutions Group, part of Robert W. Baird & Company.By putting money in the fund, investors not only delay having to pay tax, but are also eligible for a partial exclusion of the tax on the reinvested gains. If you remain in the fund for five years, you will reduce the taxable gain by 10 percent; if you hold it an additional two years, for seven total, you will further reduce the taxable gain by another 5 percent.So, continuing with Baird’s example of the $300,000 reinvested gain, you would be taxed on $270,000 after five years, and on $255,000 after seven, assuming you made the investment in time to meet the various thresholds.“It wipes out a portion of the gain,” said Mike Windle, a partner with C. Curtis Financial Group in Plymouth, Mich.In addition, any profit you earn on your investment in the new fund is tax free, if you remain invested for 10 years. However, you must pay taxes on the initial gain that you rolled into the fund no later than Dec. 31, 2026, regardless of whether you remain invested in the fund, said Hal Zemel, a tax partner with the New York accounting and advisory firm Berdon.‘A bit of the wild West’The funds are generally not for small-time investors. Minimum investments are hefty — often at least $50,000 to $100,000 and, in some cases, much higher.While the tax benefits are enticing, investors should consider that property development has its own risks, and zones targeted by the new funds are, by definition, intended to be in areas where development generally hasn’t occurred on its own.Because the funds are so new, it’s uncertain how profitable they are going to be — and much may depend on the developers. “Picking a manager is critically important,” said David Coelho, chief investment officer for opportunity zone strategies at Bridge Investment Group, a real estate investment firm.“It’s a bit of the wild West out there,” Mr. Zemel said. “You really have to do your due diligence.”Mr. Levine said he was cautious about recommending opportunity funds to clients. “The last thing you want to do is take your gain, get blinded by a tax benefit, and lose your money,” he said.It’s likely, he said, that local developers who already had projects underway in the designated zones will benefit most.State governors naturally wanted to designate opportunity zones in areas most in need of capital, but some neighborhoods may be too depressed to appeal to investors, said Avy Stein, co-founder of Cresset Wealth Advisors, which is a partner in an opportunity fund. He said he considered many of the zones in Illinois to be particularly challenging for investors, while areas of California and the Pacific Northwest, along with Houston, Nashville, Omaha, New York and Washington, D.C., were more promising.Fundrise is targeting areas in Atlanta, Los Angeles, Seattle and Washington, D.C., as well as the Bay Area, including Oakland and San Jose. While it may appear that some areas had enough investment before their designation as opportunity zones, he said, a closer look reveals a more nuanced picture. For example, he said, the Manchester neighborhood of Richmond, Va., has had “pockets” of intense development but needs help to keep the momentum going. “Lack of further investment risks the failing of neighborhood redevelopments to date and a spiral back into decay,” Mr. Miller said.Donald Trump isn’t the first president, or even the first Republican president, who has sought to define his legacy in part with a big construction project. Abraham Lincoln signed legislation providing the land grants and financing that created the transcontinental railroad. Theodore Roosevelt built the Panama Canal. Dwight Eisenhower built the interstate highway system.But Trump’s wall is different, and not just because it probably won’t actually get built. Previous big construction projects were about bringing people together and making them more productive. The wall is about division — not just a barrier against outsiders, but an attempt to drive a wedge between Americans, too. It’s about fear, not the future.Why isn’t Trump building anything? Surely he’s exactly the kind of politician likely to suffer from an edifice complex, a desire to see his name on big projects. Furthermore, during the 2016 campaign he didn’t just promise a wall, he also promised a major rebuilding of America’s infrastructure.But month after month of inaction followed his inauguration. A year ago he again promised “the biggest and boldest infrastructure investment in American history.” Again, nothing happened.[Paul Krugman did explanatory journalism before it was cool, moving from a career as a world-class economist to writing hard-hitting opinion columns. For an even deeper look at what’s on his mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]Last month there was reportedly a White House meeting to game out a new infrastructure plan. This time they mean it. Really. Would this administration ever lie to you?The interesting question is why Trump seems unwilling or unable to do anything about America’s crumbling roads, bridges, water supplies and so on. After all, polls show that a large majority of the public wants to see more infrastructure spending. Public investment is an issue on which Trump could get substantial Democratic support; it would lift the economy, and also help repair the public’s perception that the administration is chaotic and incompetent.Yet everything points to two more years of occasional bombast about infrastructure, with no follow-up. Why the paralysis?Some news analyses suggest that it’s about money, that big infrastructure spending would happen if only Republicans and Democrats could agree on how to pay for it. But this is being credulous. Remember, in 2017 the G.O.P. enacted a $2 trillion tax cut with absolutely no pay-fors; the tax cut is completely failing to deliver the promised boost to private investment, but there is no sign of buyer’s remorse.So Republicans don’t really care about using debt to pay for things they want. And Democrats, whose top policy wonks have been telling them that deficit fears are excessive, would surely support a program of debt-financed infrastructure spending.In short, money isn’t why we aren’t building infrastructure. The real obstacle is that Trump, his officials, his party or all of the above don’t actually want the kind of public investment America needs. Build they won’t.In the case of Trump administration officials, what’s striking about the various infrastructure “plans” they’ve offered — they’re more like vague sketches — is that they involve very little direct public investment. Instead, they’re schemes that would purportedly use public funds as a sweetener to induce large amounts of private investment. Why not just build stuff? Partly, perhaps, to hold down the headline cost. But such schemes would also amount to a backdoor way to privatize public assets, while possibly generating little new investment.And while a real infrastructure plan would gain a lot of support from Democrats, an exercise in crony capitalism pretending to be about infrastructure wouldn’t.Meanwhile, Republicans in Congress are aggressively uninterested in any kind of public investment program. During Trump’s first two years in office, they first bullied him into submitting a plan that actually provided hardly any money for new investment, then invented excuses for not dealing even with that emasculated proposal.The truth is that modern conservatives hate the idea of any kind of new public spending, even if it would make Americans better off — or perhaps it would be more accurate to say especially if it would make Americans better off, because a successful spending program might help legitimize a positive role for government in general. And while Trump may not fully share his party’s small-government ideology, all his limited energy is going into finding ways to punish people, not help them.So who will rebuild America? Trump and his party have had their chance, and clearly refuse to act, so it will have to be the Democrats. Their proposed Green New Deal is deliberately short on specifics, but its clear thrust is toward a revival of the American tradition of public investment in the public interest.And my guess, which is also my hope, is that if Democrats get the opportunity — if, in 2021, they regain control of both the White House and the Senate — they won’t let funding concerns block an infrastructure push. Major health reform will need new revenue sources, but given low interest rates, debt-financed public investment would be sound policy. Build we must, build we should, and hopefully build we will.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.The sins of Valeant Pharmaceuticals are well known. Instead of spending to develop new drugs, Valeant bought out other drugmakers, then increased prices of lifesaving medicines by as much as 5,785 percent. Patients had no choice but to pay.Valeant’s chief executive, J. Michael Pearson, was hauled into a 2016 Senate hearing and verbally thrashed by lawmakers. “It’s using patients as hostages. It’s immoral,” said Claire McCaskill, then the Democratic senator from Missouri. One executive went to prison for fraud. The company’s share price collapsed.It hadn’t always been that way. Before Valeant’s fall, its stock was a Wall Street darling, attracting high-profile investors who tirelessly promoted the company on financial news channels. But one investor especially avoided the spotlight — a secretive hedge fund owned by McKinsey & Company, the world’s most prestigious consulting firm. McKinsey, in fact, had deep ties to the drugmaker: Four top Valeant officials, including Mr. Pearson, were McKinsey veterans, and the firm was advising Valeant on drug prices and acquisitions.That web of relationships underscores the unusual nature of McKinsey’s hedge fund, and the potential for undisclosed conflicts of interest between the fund’s investments and the advice the firm sells to clients.McKinsey is alone among the leading consulting firms in operating the hedge fund, which invests for about 30,000 current and former McKinsey partners and other employees. The fund — McKinsey Investment Office, or MIO Partners — is as opaque as its parent.McKinsey does not disclose the identity of its clients — the chief executives, prime ministers and princes who seek its counsel on management best practices. And even as the firm is privy to market-moving corporate maneuvers and confidential government information, its hedge fund’s investments are often secret, with a large part of its approximately $12.3 billion in holdings concealed behind a tangle of shell companies in an island tax haven in the English Channel.As a result, any intersections between McKinsey’s consulting work and the fund’s investments are largely hidden.McKinsey says the way the fund is structured and operated ensures that its employee investors do not stand to benefit from the firm’s inside knowledge and consulting advice. Hedge fund managers do not coordinate with McKinsey consultants, the firm says, and about 90 percent of MIO’s capital, including the Valeant investment, is managed by outside funds.“MIO and McKinsey employ separate staffs. MIO staff have no nonpublic knowledge of McKinsey clients,” the company said in a statement. “For the vast majority of assets under management, decisions about specific investments are made by third-party managers.”But those assurances of church-state separation are increasingly, and very publicly, being challenged, in Congress and in lawsuits alleging that McKinsey failed to fully disclose conflicts of interest in its work advising companies going through bankruptcy.In one of them, a federal judge in Virginia last month reopened a coal-company bankruptcy case after learning that McKinsey had not disclosed, as required by law, that it was also among the company’s secured creditors, through MIO. The secured creditors recovered the most money. “These are some of the most serious allegations that I have ever seen,” said the judge, Kevin R. Huennekens.Among the revelations in that lawsuit was that the head of McKinsey’s bankruptcy practice was also a member of the hedge fund’s board. Indeed, nine of the 11 people identified as MIO directors are current or former McKinsey consultants.[McKinsey has agreed to pay $15 million to resolve a Justice Department investigation of its disclosures.]In Puerto Rico, where McKinsey is advising a board that seeks to reduce the island’s crippling debt, The New York Times reported last year that the hedge fund was invested in bonds that gave it a stake in the outcome. Afterward, a bipartisan group of House members introduced a bill to compel advisers like McKinsey to disclose potential conflicts of interest. And Representative Nydia M. Velázquez, a New York Democrat, and Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat now running for president, wrote to McKinsey, assailing its conflict-of-interest disclosure as “opaque or nonexistent.” McKinsey responded that there was no relationship between its work in Puerto Rico and the fund’s bond investments.An investigation requested by the oversight board found that MIO had five direct and indirect investments in Puerto Rico’s debt while McKinsey advised the island, according to a report released Monday. The investigation found no evidence that McKinsey violated any laws or that its consultants knew about MIO’s investments, though the report noted that any consultant could have learned about them by “reviewing publicly available (albeit usually dated and incomplete) information.” MIO’s holdings of Puerto Rico debt “could create the appearance of a potential conflict,” said the report, which recommended more thorough disclosure.Much of what the fund invests in remains concealed. But The Times uncovered some investments through interviews with former fund officials and shareholders and a review of thousands of pages of documents, including court filings, prospectuses and leaked offshore records. Those investments range from Valeant to a Nepalese casino and a stake in a fund that lent money to the man who became China’s most notorious fugitive.And while outside managers direct most of the firm’s holdings, its own traders have directly invested more than $1 billion in assets like commodities, foreign currencies and government bonds. With McKinsey increasingly advising governments around the world, those direct investments, highly sensitive to government policies, create the potential for conflicts of interest.“The mistake people make is to say, ‘Well, conflicts of interest aren’t so dangerous, because well-meaning professionals can navigate them objectively,’” said Daylian Cain, who teaches business ethics at the Yale School of Management. “But the research is out on this: No, they can’t.”Gaining Ground in a Talent WarMcKinsey sells itself as a partnership of the best and the brightest, marshaled to confront the toughest problems. But that defining claim was threatened in the early 1990s as soaring Wall Street salaries dimmed the allure of consulting careers. One McKinsey consultant called it a “war for talent.”MIO was set up in part to attract and retain that talent, offering an in-house hedge fund that gave financial advice and had a portfolio of high-quality, low-fee funds, according to a former MIO executive.It was a novel idea. Management consultants were not known for managing money. It also represented a broad philosophical shift at McKinsey. Tom Peters, the management guru and co-author of “In Search of Excellence,” said that during his time as a McKinsey partner in the late 1970s, managers rejected the notion of having financial stakes in their clients.“You can’t be advising people and have a fiduciary interest in the people you’re advising,” Mr. Peters said in an interview.Today, on the 13th floor of an aging office building five blocks from McKinsey’s home office in Midtown Manhattan, MIO oversees vast sums of money — with what appears to be considerable success.Internal documents examined by The Times show that from 2000 to 2010, MIO’s flagship fund, the Compass Special Situations Fund, had an average annual return above 9 percent, compared with a 1.6 percent loss in the S&P 500 Index. In 2008, when the broader United States stock market fell more than 36 percent, the Special Situations Fund lost about half that amount.McKinsey’s main competitors, Bain & Company and Boston Consulting Group, have nothing like MIO. Regulatory filings show that an outside manager, Vanguard, manages their employees’ 401(k) retirement accounts.But investments for McKinsey’s 401(k) plan, which must be disclosed to the Department of Labor, make up only about half of MIO’s assets. The rest, about $6 billion, is the private wealth of McKinsey’s current and former partners, according to a disclosure to the Securities and Exchange Commission.Those partners have access to a trove of inside knowledge about their clients.According to its website, McKinsey counts as clients 90 of the world’s 100 biggest companies. It advises two-thirds of the top mining companies, more than half of the top 25 airlines and 60 percent of the 100 largest banks.At the same time, the current or former McKinsey consultants who dominate MIO’s board include the leaders of the firm’s wealth and asset management and energy practices, according to an S.E.C. filing.That board structure has come under scrutiny by the Justice Department amid the lawsuits alleging that McKinsey engaged in fraud by failing to fully disclose conflicts of interest in its bankruptcy work. The three suits were brought by Jay Alix, a retired bankruptcy adviser who retains a minority interest in a consulting company he founded.In Virginia, the judge ordered a reopening of the bankruptcy case of Alpha Natural Resources after an official with the Justice Department’s Office of the United States Trustee argued that the hedge fund was not a “blind trust,” as claimed. The Justice Department pointed out that the head of McKinsey’s bankruptcy practice, Jon Garcia, sat on the fund’s board. Until he stepped down in 2017, Mr. Garcia received regular reports on the fund’s investment decisions and ratified them, the official said.In another case, the trustee’s office, which oversees the bankruptcy system, said in a December court filing that McKinsey had “pervasive disclosure deficiencies” in its bankruptcy work with a Colorado coal-mining company. McKinsey, the trustee argued, should be removed from the bankruptcy case and stripped of its fees.On Tuesday, the trustee’s office announced that it had reached a $15 million settlement with McKinsey over the firm’s inadequate disclosures in the three bankruptcy cases. Mr. Alix’s lawsuits continue.In a statement, McKinsey noted that the settlement did not “constitute an admission of liability or misconduct,” adding that the firm had agreed to the settlement “to move forward and focus on serving its clients.”Until the flurry of attention from the bankruptcies and the Puerto Rico controversy, the very existence of McKinsey’s hedge fund had largely escaped public notice. McKinsey declined to make Todd Tibbetts, the fund’s longtime chief investment officer, or any other officials available for interviews for this article.For someone who manages such a large and successful portfolio, there is surprisingly little public information about Mr. Tibbetts. So secretive is the fund under Mr. Tibbetts that its managers were discouraged from attending industry events and, even when they did, from talking to participants, one former fund executive said.One reason for the secrecy, another former executive said, is that McKinsey does not want people connecting any dots between what its consultants do and where its hedge fund invests. (The former fund officials requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the press.)MIO’s secrecy is also manifest in the location it chose to house so much of its money — at least $4 billion, according to S.E.C. filings: the tiny English Channel island of Guernsey.An Island of Buried TreasureTrafalgar Court is a grand name gracing a forgettable modern office building wildly out of place in the postcard-perfect town of St. Peter Port. Inside, hundreds of deskbound office workers do the work that is Guernsey’s lifeblood: hiding billions of dollars from the outside world.This is the Guernsey headquarters of Northern Trust, a Chicago-based asset manager. For a price, it offers exceptional secrecy through Barfield Nominees, an obscure company it controls.At the Guernsey Registry, there is little information on Barfield Nominees other than that it has three directors, all Northern Trust executives who work at Trafalgar Court. Douglas A. Holt, a Northern Trust spokesman, said Barfield acted as a custodian, holding assets for its clients. These assets are identified only by a number.“The identity of Northern Trust clients and their beneficial ownership is confidential,” he said.Very few documents link Barfield Nominees to McKinsey’s hedge fund, but when they do, MIO money can be traced to unusual places like a casino in Kathmandu, Nepal, called the Millionaire’s Club.Then there were MIO’s investments — through three Barfield Nominees numbered entities — in a Hong Kong-based asset manager called PAG, formerly Pacific Alliance Group.The McKinsey fund took stakes in two China-focused PAG funds. In a 2010 London exchange filing, PAG disclosed that MIO had a stake of more than 10 percent in one fund, worth about $20 million. At the end of 2015, MIO also owned more than a quarter of another China-focused PAG fund.In 2008, Pacific Alliance had made a big bet on a real estate mogul who owned a colossal office and luxury apartment complex next to the site of that year’s Summer Olympics in Beijing. Court records show that it lent $30 million to a company controlled by the mogul, who had deep ties to China’s intelligence community and was already notorious for allegedly orchestrating the downfall of a Beijing vice mayor with a sex tape.PAG says it was never repaid its loan. The mogul has fled China for New York. In China, he faces corruption and rape charges, which he says are false. PAG sued him in a New York court in 2017, saying he owed it about $88 million, court records show.His name is Guo Wengui, though he also goes by Miles Kwok. He is China’s highest-profile fugitive, and for years McKinsey was, through PAG, one of his creditors, a fact hidden through Barfield Nominees. There is no evidence that McKinsey knew its investment would find its way to Mr. Guo, with whom the firm said it had no direct dealings.In its statement, McKinsey said the decision to use an offshore company was driven not by its hedge fund but “by our custodian and the type of investment” — in funds rather than traded securities. McKinsey’s hedge fund, the statement added, is “hardly the only investment or pension fund” to use such an arrangement.But John Christensen, a founder of the Tax Justice Network, a group based in Britain that seeks to bring more transparency to tax havens, said there was a disconnect between McKinsey’s mission of spreading corporate best practices and its use of tax havens like Guernsey.“I can’t think of any legitimate, genuinely economic reason for using a place like that,” Mr. Christensen said.He should know: For 11 years, Mr. Christensen was the economic adviser to Jersey, a neighboring tax haven.The ‘Pharmaceutical Enron’The Senate hearings on Valeant Pharmaceuticals examined how the company, under Mr. Pearson’s leadership, raised the price of Isuprel and Nitropress, decades-old heart medications commonly found on emergency-room crash carts.Mr. Pearson relied on an idea he had honed as head of McKinsey’s pharmaceutical practice: focusing on acquisitions of existing drugmakers instead of spending heavily to discover the next blockbuster drug.Before buying Isuprel and Nitropress from a competitor, Valeant consulted McKinsey, which reported that the drugs had “material pricing potential,” according to records obtained by the Senate.After the acquisition, Valeant raised Isuprel’s price by 720 percent, and Nitropress’s by 310 percent.As McKinsey consultants were advising Valeant in late 2014, two of MIO’s funds, Compass TPM and Compass Offshore TPM, acquired an indirect stake in Valeant, through Visium Asset Management, a fund soon to implode in an insider-trading scandal.Through another outside hedge fund, Aristeia Capital, two other MIO funds acquired shares in Valeant in early 2015, after the company agreed to buy Dendreon, a bankrupt drugmaker. The McKinsey funds were listed among the eight noteholders of Dendreon, entitled to a portion of the $495 million, in cash and Valeant shares, that Valeant paid for the company.In a statement, Aristeia said it had learned of McKinsey’s role advising Valeant only when contacted by The Times. “Aristeia never sought input from MIO on potential conflicts, because MIO had no investment discretion in respect to these assets,” the company said.McKinsey, in its statement, said its hedge fund “had no input into the investment decisions made by Visium and Aristeia,” its third-party managers. Valeant, now called Bausch Health, said it hadn’t been advised by McKinsey on mergers and acquisitions since May 2016.By October 2015, as Valeant’s share price was falling after reports about its undisclosed relationship with a mail-order pharmacy, one research firm described the company as the “pharmaceutical Enron.” Enron, an energy company and McKinsey client, collapsed in 2001. Its chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling, another former McKinsey partner, was sent to federal prison.Even if the McKinsey fund’s investments in Valeant were indirect, the firm’s partners stood to profit from their own advice.“You have to decide, am I a consulting firm or an investment firm?” said Charles Elson, a finance professor at the University of Delaware who focuses on corporate governance. “They’re two different things.”Whoever gets the Democratic nomination, she or he will run in part on proposals to increase government spending. And you know what that will mean: There will be demands that the candidate explain how all this will be paid for. Many of those demands will be made in bad faith, from people who never ask the same questions about tax cuts. But there are some real questions about the fiscal side of a progressive agenda.Well, I have some thoughts about that, inspired in part by looking at Elizabeth Warren’s proposals on both the tax and spending side. By the way, I don’t know whether Warren will or even should get the nomination. But she’s a major intellectual figure, and is pushing her party toward serious policy discussion in a way that will have huge influence whatever her personal trajectory.In particular, Warren’s latest proposal on child care – and the instant pushback from the usual suspects – has me thinking that we could use a rough typology of spending proposals, classified by how they might be paid for. Specifically, let me suggest that there are three broad categories of progressive expenditure: investment, benefits enhancement, and major system overhaul, which need to be thought about differently from a fiscal point of view.So, first off, investment – typically spending on infrastructure or research, but there may be some room at the margin for including spending on things like childhood development in the same category. The defining characteristic here is that it’s spending that will enhance society’s future productivity. How should we pay for that kind of outlay?The answer is, we shouldn’t. Think of all the people who say that the government should be run like a business. Actually it shouldn’t, but the two kinds of institution do have this in common: if you can raise funds cheaply and apply them to high-return projects, you should go ahead and borrow. And Federal borrowing costs are very low – less than 1 percent, adjusted for inflation – while we are desperately in need of public investment, i.e., it has a high social return. So we should just do it, without looking for pay-fors.Much of what seems to be in the Green New Deal falls into that category. To the extent that it’s a public investment program, demands that its supporters show how they’ll pay for it show more about the critics’ bad economics than about the GND’s logic.My second category is a bit harder to define, but what I’m thinking of are initiatives that either expand an existing public program or use subsidies to create incentives for expanding some kind of socially desirable private activity – in each case involving sums that are significant but not huge, say a fraction of a percent of GDP.The Affordable Care Act falls into that category. It expanded Medicaid while using a combination of regulation and subsidies to make private insurance more available to families above the new Medicaid line. Warren’s childcare proposal, which reportedly will come in at around 1/3 of a percent of GDP, also fits. So would a “Medicare for All” proposal that involves allowing people to buy in to government insurance, rather than offering that insurance free of charge.It’s harder to justify borrowing for this kind of initiative than borrowing for investment. True, with interest rates low and demand weak it makes some sense to run persistent deficits, but there are surely enough investment needs to use up that allowance. So you want some kind of pay-for. But the sums are small enough that the revenue involved could be raised by fairly narrow-gauge taxes – in particular, taxes that hit only high-income Americans.That is, in fact, how Obamacare was financed: the revenue component came almost entirely from taxes on high incomes (there were some small items like the tax on tanning parlors.) And Warren has in fact proposed additional taxes on the wealthy – her proposed tax on fortunes over $50 million would yield something like four times the cost of her child care proposal.So benefit enhancement can, I’d argue, be paid for with taxes on high incomes and large fortunes. It doesn’t have to impose on the middle class.Finally, my third category is major system overhaul, of which the archetype would be replacing employer-based private health insurance with a tax-financed public program – the purist version of Medicare for all. A really major expansion of Social Security might fall into that category too, although smaller enhancements might not.Proposals in this category are literally an order of magnitude more expensive than benefit enhancements: private health insurance currently amounts to 6 percent of GDP. To implement these proposals, then, we’d need a lot more revenue, which would have to come from things like payroll taxes and/or a value-added tax that hit the middle class.You can argue that most middle-class families would be better off in the end, that the extra benefits would more than compensate for the higher taxes. And you’d probably be right. But this would be a much heavier political lift. You don’t have to be a neoliberal tool to wonder whether major system overhaul should be part of the Democratic platform right now, even if it’s something many progressives aspire to.My main point now, however, is that when people ridicule progressive proposals as silly and unaffordable, they’re basically revealing their own biases and ignorance. Investment can and should be debt-financed; benefit enhancements can be largely paid for with high-end taxes. Howard Schultz won’t like it, but that’s his problem.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A potential rival to Tesla in electric cars just got a big boost from Amazon.The online retail giant is leading a $700 million investment in Rivian, a Michigan company that is developing a battery-powered pickup truck and an electric sport utility vehicle. The automaker announced the new round of investment on Friday, offering few details but saying it would remain independent.Founded in 2009 by an M.I.T.-trained engineer, R. J. Scaringe, Rivian first showed its truck and S.U.V. at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November. The key feature of each is a chassis that is shaped like a skateboard and includes all the components that propel the vehicles — a large battery pack, axles, suspension, cooling system and four electric motors. The company says its pickup will be able to go up to 400 miles on a full charge.The deal is the latest example of how the auto industry is being reshaped by new technologies and nimble companies that have raced ahead of many traditional carmakers. While General Motors, Ford Motor and others are scrambling to introduce new electric vehicles, Tesla has become by far the leading seller of electric cars in the United States. Waymo, a division of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, is considered by some analysts to be the leading developer of autonomous vehicles.“We’re inspired by Rivian’s vision for the future of electric transportation,” Jeff Wilke, Amazon’s chief executive for worldwide consumer, said in a statement. “R. J. has built an impressive organization, with a product portfolio and technology to match. We’re thrilled to invest in such an innovative company.”An Amazon spokeswoman declined to elaborate on the thinking behind the Rivian investment.Since 2015, Amazon has been building out its own logistics network, one that is a “global, end-to-end network covering all transportation modalities,” Morgan Stanley said in a research note last month. It owns dozens of planes and has a transoceanic shipping operation, not to mention trucks, rail and other ways to deliver products and packages. The company spent more than $27 billion on worldwide shipping last year.Amazon relies on contract drivers in passenger cars and trucks to make many last-minute deliveries quicker than it can through delivery partners like the United States Postal Service. Last month, the company said it was testing a delivery device called Scout, which is the size of a large ice chest that can “roll along sidewalks at a walking pace.” The company says it is using the devices to deliver packages to customers in a suburb near Amazon’s Seattle headquarters.The company ordered 20,000 Mercedes-Benz vans last year for its delivery partners to shuttle Amazon products to consumers, but those vans run on diesel, a fossil fuel. The company has also been facing pressure from employees looking to reduce its environmental impact, particularly in its logistics operations.And last week, Amazon made a “significant” investment in Aurora, a California start-up that is developing self-driving technology. Aurora is led by Chris Urmson, who previously headed Alphabet’s autonomous car effort.“For Amazon, this small investment is a good way to enlarge their bet on the E.V. automotive market without having to tool up a plant to find out if it will fly,” said Matt DeLorenzo, senior managing editor of Kelley Blue Book. “Over time, the Rivian investment could give Amazon a starting point to own and operate an in-house package delivery business.”Rivian previously raised about $500 million from Sumitomo, a Japanese conglomerate known for its tire division, and Abdul Latif Jameel, a Saudi industrial group. Those earlier investors also took part in the new investment round, though the companies did not say how much money they put in.At the Los Angeles show, Mr. Scaringe described the company's pickup, the R1T, and its S.U.V., the R1S, as upscale vehicles that could be used for off-road adventures. They are intended to compete for motorists who buy pricey Land Rovers and Porsche S.U.V.s. Rivian’s vehicles are expected to sell for $68,000 or more.“This is a vehicle you can use,” Mr. Scaringe said. “You can get it dirty, but it’s still a very thoughtful, intelligent design.”Both vehicles may end up competing directly with Tesla models. Tesla already offers an S.U.V., the Model X, and is working on a pickup truck and a smaller S.U.V. Rivian has said it aims to sell about 20,000 vehicles in 2021 and double that in 2022. Last year, Tesla sold about 245,000 cars.Analysts said Rivian’s success was by no means assured.“They still face all the hurdles,” said Karl Brauer, executive publisher at Cox Automotive. “They have to produce the vehicles. They have to deliver the vehicles. Tesla has been around longer, but it’s still struggling to set up a dealer network and is struggling with high-volume production.”Rivian has kept a low profile, especially compared with Tesla and its flamboyant chief executive, Elon Musk. Until recently, to keep its operations secret, Rivian did not display its name on its buildings. While Mr. Scaringe has a Twitter account, he has posted only 87 tweets — a small fraction of Mr. Musk’s nearly 7,000.And while Tesla and Mr. Musk regularly make headlines, relatively little is known about Mr. Scaringe, who is 36. He grew up near Melbourne, Fla.; studied at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; and earned a doctorate in mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.He then created a company, Mainstream Motors, in Florida, intending to produce an affordable sports car that could go 60 miles on a gallon of gas. In 2011, the company was renamed Rivian, and its focus shifted to electric vehicles.Rivian employs 600 people, with its main office in Plymouth, Mich., about 30 miles west of Detroit. In 2016, it bought a mothballed auto plant in Normal, Ill., previously owned by Mitsubishi Motors.Chris Koos, the mayor of Normal, where Rivian plans to produce its vehicles, described Mr. Scaringe as a “broad thinker” who seems immersed in operational details.“When you ask him a technical question, you can expect about a 10-minute answer,” Mr. Koos said.Climate change is not a distant threat for Miami; it’s a daily presence in people’s lives. The city has been fighting to stay above water for decades. It knows that its future as a vibrant international hub for business, tourism, arts and culture depends on making the city more resilient to the impact of global warming. That’s why the city of Miami is moving aggressively to adapt; in 2017, its citizens voted to tax themselves to build resilience against flooding and storm surges by approving a $400 million bond issue that is financing projects across the city. Miami is not alone, of course, in facing these threats. Around the globe, some 800 million people in hundreds of coastal cities are at risk from storm surges and rising seas. We want to share what we have learned in building resilience against the changing climate.One reality we have come to understand is this: Our current efforts to protect coastal cities will fall short of what will be required in decades to come. For in spite of global efforts to rein in carbon dioxide emissions that cause global warming, they continue to rise and expose coastal cities like Miami to more extreme weather events and rising seas. And yet, the world’s biggest economies invested only about $25 billion on adaptation overall in 2014, despite losing many times that amount to floods, storms, wildfires and droughts. Clearly, more investment is needed to build resilience, especially to protect the world’s coastal regions and cities.We have also learned that there is strength in numbers. Miami can access a wealth of resources, including sea level rise projections, thanks to its membership in regional bodies like the Southeast Florida Regional Climate Change Compact. The city has also gained a broader perspective on urban resilience challenges and approaches by joining global networks such as the Global Commission on Climate Adaptation, where we both serve as board members, and 100 Resilient Cities. Finally, we have learned that effective adaptation is a collective endeavor. It requires a holistic, long-term approach that takes into account the needs of our citizens today and in the future. This requires robust and meticulous long-term planning, informed investment in resilient infrastructure, adapting land use and building policies to address the climate challenge, advancing new transportation solutions, educating and informing citizens about climate change, training and mobilizing volunteers during emergencies, informing private property owners of climate risks, and forging partnerships with research institutions and business innovators. As this long list makes clear, there isn’t a single aspect of our daily lives that isn’t affected by climate change.Perhaps one of the reasons there is so little investment in adaptation is the lack of financial incentives. Unlike a wind farm, for example, that can earn a steady return for investors, the monetary benefits of adaptation are less straightforward. Investing in resilience protects businesses and communities from devastating losses, so it must be measured in the lives saved and businesses that remain open. We are only now learning how to quantify these benefits to communities. Florida’s Division of Emergency Management, for example, calculated that projects to reduce wind and water damage avoided $81 million in losses when Hurricane Matthew struck in 2016, while costing only $19 million to carry out. The projects included raising buildings, improving drainage, and buying and demolishing properties in vulnerable areas.That is why leadership, particularly from city governments like Miami’s, is so important in driving investment in adaptation. After Hurricane Irma in September 2017 — one of the costliest in United States history, leaving a $50 billion trail of destruction — there was both a moral and a fiscal obligation to act. That’s why two months later, Miami voters approved the $400 million Miami Forever Bond.The program is the city’s answer to the shortfall of investment in adaptation. It brings together city planners, private sector innovators and citizens to build a stronger, more resilient future for Miami. Almost half this amount is being invested in flood defenses and other measures to combat the effects of rising sea levels. The remaining funds will be invested in affordable housing, tree planting, road work and an innovative approach to urban landscape design that will allow residents to continue enjoying waterfront access while improving drainage and sea wall defenses.On Tuesday, we had the opportunity to visit resilience projects financed by the bond in the heart of Miami’s Brickell financial district. They include expanding drainage capacity to reduce flooding and new pumping stations to collect storm water runoff and discharge it into the Miami River and Biscayne Bay. In addition, a project along Brickell Bay Drive will raise the elevation of nearly one and a half miles of sea wall on Biscayne Bay to prevent flooding from storm surges, and a redesign of Jose Marti Park along the Miami River will reduce flood risk.We hope that along with these projects, Miami’s resilience bond will become a catalyst for greater private sector investment and innovation in climate adaptation. We also hope it will spur similar initiatives in coastal cities around the globe. Ban Ki-moon, a former secretary general of the United Nations, is a co-chairman of the Global Commission on Adaptation. Francis Suarez is the mayor of Miami.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Todd Morici bought his first collectible car in 1984, a four-year-old Ferrari Berlinetta Boxer. He was 24 and drove it as often as he could, racking up 10,000 miles before he sold it. But he realized something else about Ferrari’s appeal.“You could go into a dealership, put $5,000 down and wait” for a new buyer to come along, he said. “The car cost about $75,000. But you could buy it, flip it a week later and basically double your money.”By that point, Mr. Morici was hooked on two things: the beauty of Ferraris and their investment potential.That knowledge converged in a windfall in 2010 when he sold a 1959 Ferrari 250 GT long wheelbase California Spider for $7.2 million. He’d paid $900,000 for it seven years earlier. That same model sold in 2016 for $18 million, he said.Collectible cars are illiquid assets, those that are not easy to sell, like a stock or a bond. The market can fluctuate wildly, and distressed investors can wind up selling at a loss.But that risk doesn’t stop collectors. For some, the cars remind them of a mythical vehicle they could not have when they were young. For others, they are simply more fun to own than stocks and bonds.Regardless, collectible cars are going to retain their value better than a new car, which depreciates as soon as it is driven off the lot.Unlike art, which I wrote about last week as part of a series on passion assets, cars require a commitment of time and money. Leaving one in a garage, the way one might hang a piece of art on a wall, is not possible. They need to be driven, or else belts will dry out and gears will seize up. But not too much, because low mileage is prized when it comes to resale value.Regular maintenance, recorded for a future buyer, is a must, and service calls can be costly, like the ones for Ferraris that require the car’s engine to be removed. They can cost more than $20,000 per visit.Whether cars are a great investment in a strong economy isn’t apparent. Their value rose more than 300 percent from 2008 to 2015, according to the Historic Automobile Group International. By comparison, the S&P 500 rose 40 percent in that same period. But over the past four years, they have risen a comparatively modest 85 percent, with Ferrari leading that growth, while the S&P 500 rose 22 percent.“When housing and everything crashed in 2008, there were still wealthy people, so they bought alternative assets and they bought cars,” said Stu Carpenter, founder of Copley Motorcars and a leading expert on Ferraris and Land Rovers. “More collectors came into the market and drove up prices, and then more cars came into the market. Supply and demand fed off each other until 2015, when most things peaked.”The response in the last recession surprised even the experts, said David Gooding, president of Gooding & Company, a leading auto auction house.“We didn’t see it coming, but in retrospect, it does make sense,” he said. “While there was so much uncertainty in traditional markets, there was a flight toward tangible things people could wrap their minds around.”He cautions against thinking it will happen again: “Does it mean it will always be the case? No. The car market will continue to have some peaks and valleys.”After recent auctions in Pebble Beach, Calif., and Scottsdale, Ariz., experts said cars were fairly valued, even though that meant some cars, even Ferraris, sold for less than they would have a few years ago. But both Mr. Gooding and Mr. Carpenter said that sellers were going to have to be realistic about a car’s price and quality.Keeping a car in top shape is not an inexpensive proposition.Vinnie Pacifico, who made his money in food service, said he cherished his 1963 Corvette with a split window and enjoyed driving it. But to satiate his appetite for speed, he prefers driving a 2017 Porsche 911 Turbo Carrera.“If you figured out what it cost me by the mile or hour, I should have my head examined,” he said of the 8,000 miles a year he drives it. “But I like driving it.”Yet the Porsche, which he leases, cost all in about $250,000. His Corvette, which he bought in the mid-1980s for around $12,000, is worth just $130,000 by his reckoning, and is far cheaper to maintain.Benjamin Clymer, who owns the online watch retailer Hodinkee, has seven classic cars, which he keeps in Westchester County, a more affordable garage than any near his Manhattan home. His collection includes Alfa Romeos, Porsches and a 1964 Lancia Flaminia Zagato, a car once considered the Rolls-Royce of Italy.But he said he was lucky if he got a chance to visit them twice a month, and that leaves him little time to drive all of them. He said collectors needed to consider the cost of maintenance. A few years ago, he sold a 1999 Ferrari 456 for $115,000, which was $30,000 more than he paid for it. Yet he does not consider it a good investment because the car was due for a $22,000 service, which he would have had to pay had he kept it.“I just had no idea how costly Ferrari maintenance would be,” he said.His bigger concern is that his taste tends toward cars that are not sought after by his peers, making them harder to maintain and eventually sell.Mr. Gooding said such generational tastes needed to be considered, along with the continued existence of the manufacturer. “There’s just a wider mass of people that relate to brands like Porsche than to a defunct brand,” he said.There are, of course, exceptions. In August, Gooding & Company sold a 1935 Duesenberg SSJ for $22 million, a record for both an American car and a prewar car. But in this case, only two of this model were built: one for Clark Gable, the other for Gary Cooper, which was the one that was sold.With a price like that, many collectors might worry about overpaying. Mr. Gooding said he analyzed past catalogs and found that many of the cars that sold for record prices at the time had been some of the best investments for collectors. He attributes that to those cars having something different or even unique about them.But the value of collectible cars can sometimes fall. Mr. Carpenter said a frenzy developed over the Ferrari Maranello 575, first made in 2002. The few that had manual transmissions shot up in value. But those models, which once sold for $450,000, are now worth $300,000, he said.A more common risk is having to sell too quickly. Rubin Pikus, chief executive of Milbrook Properties, has a collection of seven cars, including a Corvette, a Rolls-Royce, a Bentley and a Ferrari F12 that once belonged to the former Yankees catcher Jorge Posada.He estimates that he has bought and sold more than 100 cars in his life. But he remembers the one car that he lost money on: a 1978 Aston Martin flip-tail coupe that was among a few imported to the United States. He paid $325,000 and took it to his home in West Palm Beach, Fla.But the summer heat and humidity clogged up the car’s carburetor, and the car had trouble starting if left out in the sun. So he decided to sell it back to the dealer — who offered him $50,000 less.“I’ve had other cars that I’ve made money on it,” he said. “For me, it’s a hobby and to say I can get into that car and drive it and show it off.”But he still sees investment potential. He and his son-in-law bought a 1992 Ferrari Testarossa, which sits on a lift in a private garage and is driven once a month. They paid $350,000 for it last year and expect it will be worth $500,000 in five years. One thing is for certain: It won’t have many more miles on it by then.WASHINGTON — Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, is traveling this week through the Middle East to promote a plan to invest tens of billions of dollars in the Palestinian territories and Israel’s Arab neighbors as part of his long-promised peace initiative.Mr. Kushner, who has been working for two years on a blueprint for President Trump intended to resolve the decades-old dispute between Israel and the Palestinians, told leaders of Arab states that the economic plan would be critical to creating an environment in which the two sides could make the necessary political compromises.“What we have found is that all the conflict does is keep people from having the opportunity to do commerce and to have opportunity and improve their lives,” Mr. Kushner said in a rare interview with Sky News Arabia. “Hopefully, if we can resolve this issue, we will be able to see a lot more opportunity for the Palestinian people, for the Israeli people and the people throughout the region.”The White House publicly released no details of the economic component, but analysts who have followed its development said that they had been told it would involve investing around $25 billion in the West Bank and Gaza over 10 years and another $40 billion in Egypt, Jordan and perhaps Lebanon, depending on their performance meeting certain goals. Others who have spoken with Mr. Kushner disputed those specific figures, but agreed that it would involve tens of billions of dollars to those parts of the region.The bulk of the money would come from the region’s wealthiest states, and while the United States would contribute as well, it was not clear how much. In his trip this week, Mr. Kushner has visited the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Bahrain, and he plans to sit down on Wednesday with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey. From there, he will head to Saudi Arabia and Qatar.While in Saudi Arabia, Mr. Kushner could meet with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for the first time since Saudi agents killed and dismembered Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident and columnist for The Washington Post. American intelligence agencies have concluded that Prince Mohammed ordered the killing, but the Saudi government denies it, and Mr. Trump has resisted blaming the crown prince.Mr. Kushner, whose secret peace plan has generated enormous speculation in the region, said he would make it public sometime after Israeli elections scheduled for April 9. He has not said whether it would include a Palestinian state, and in the Sky News Arabia interview, he was vague about his vision.“The political plan, which is very detailed, is really about establishing borders and resolving final status issues,” he said. But then Mr. Kushner added, “The goal of resolving these borders is really to eliminate the borders. If you can eliminate borders and have peace and less fear of terror, you could have freer flow of goods, freer flow of people and that would create a lot more opportunities.”But if by eliminating borders Mr. Kushner means that the Palestinians would not get their own state, veteran diplomats said it would be unrealistic to expect them to give up their national aspirations in exchange for economic investment.“It’s going to be a very hard sell politically as well as economically,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former special envoy for Middle East peace under President Barack Obama. “If the bargain is we’ll put in $65 billion so you Palestinians and Arabs will back off your political demands for an independent state based on ’67 lines with East Jerusalem as its capital, I don’t think they’re going to raise the money to pay for it. The whole proposition appears to be based on false assumptions.”Indeed, King Salman of Saudi Arabia hosted President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority this week and declared that his country “permanently stands by Palestine and its people’s right to an independent state with East Jerusalem as its capital,” according to the official Saudi Press Agency.As it is, relations between Mr. Trump and the Palestinians have soured so much that the Palestinians have refused to meet officially with the Americans in more than a year. Mr. Trump ordered the American Embassy moved to Jerusalem, folded the consulate charged with dealing with the Palestinians into the embassy, closed the Palestinian office in Washington and cut aid to the Palestinians.Moreover, some longtime specialists in the region said the Persian Gulf states would be reluctant to finance Mr. Kushner’s economic plan without a substantial contribution by the United States. “Since there’s no public talk of a major American investment, Middle Easterners are unlikely to open their wallets without seeing what Washington is going to contribute,” said Robert Satloff, the executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.Dennis B. Ross, a longtime Middle East negotiator for several presidents, said Mr. Kushner is right to believe that without an economic component, any political understanding may not be sustainable. But an eventual peace plan has to include enough political concessions to entice both sides, as well.“The Palestinians are conveying to the Arabs that this is an effort to buy them off to give up their national aspirations — and that will require the political part of the plan to look more credible on statehood and Jerusalem for the Arabs,” Mr. Ross said.As for Israel, the country’s leadership is now up for grabs as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a close ally of Mr. Trump’s, tries to fend off a possible corruption indictment and a newly formed opposition coalition in the coming elections.Mr. Kushner’s trip invariably became fodder on the campaign trail as Naftali Bennett, a leader of a party to the right of Mr. Netanyahu, suggested that the prime minister would cut a deal with Mr. Trump creating a Palestinian state and dividing Jerusalem after the election. Mr. Netanyahu fired back, saying that was “unfounded.”Even as analysts are forecasting declines in auto sales in the United States this year and next, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles believes the time is still ripe for expansion.On Tuesday, the Italian-American automaker said it planned to spend $4.5 billion over the next three years to update several Detroit plants and retool an engine plant to make Jeeps, an effort the company said would create about 6,500 new jobs.While moving forward, it also took a step back, trimming operations at an Illinois plant and eliminating almost 1,400 jobs.The other big American automakers, General Motors and Ford, have been cutting jobs and production. But Mike Manley, Fiat Chrysler’s chief executive, said he was confident that the American economy would remain on track.“The economic indicators as we see them are still strong,” he said in a conference call with reporters.He also noted that the updated plants would produce three large Jeep models — vehicles that are experiencing growth as consumers gravitate toward sport utility vehicles and increasingly abandon sedans. The plan, Mr. Manley said, “is an investment in Jeep as our core brand.”The Jeep brand has benefited as American consumers have flocked to S.U.V.s and other roomier vehicles, and have turned away from sedans and compacts. In 2018, two-thirds of new vehicles sold nationwide were classified as trucks, up from half in 2013.Overall new-vehicle sales in the United States are expected to be lower this year, and the pace of Jeep sales has slowed in the first two months of the year, leaving dealers with heavy inventories. As of Feb. 1, Fiat Chrysler had enough Jeeps on dealer lots to last 166 days, up from 116 on Jan. 1.“I think there is some risk for FCA,” said Charles Chesbrough, a senior economist at Cox Automotive. “I don’t think people are expecting the market to collapse, but it is slowing down.”The plan is the first major initiative announced by Mr. Manley, who was named chief executive in July after his predecessor, Sergio Marchionne, died unexpectedly after shoulder surgery. Mr. Manley had headed the Jeep brand under Mr. Marchionne.Fiat Chrysler intends to convert its Mack Avenue Engine plant in Detroit to produce a new seven-passenger Jeep model and the new version of its Jeep Grand Cherokee, a move that will add 3,850 jobs. Mr. Manley said construction would start in the second quarter. Plans for the plant’s conversion had surfaced in news reports in December.The company will also update another Detroit plant, known as Jefferson North, to be able to make the next-generation Grand Cherokee as well as the Dodge Durango, another S.U.V., creating 1,000 additional jobs. A third plant in Warren, Mich., that currently makes an older version of the Ram 1500 pickup truck will be modified to also make two other new vehicles — the Jeep Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer. That will bring 1,400 jobs to the Warren factory.Mr. Manley said the plant modifications would allow Fiat Chrysler to start making electric versions of its Jeep models, if customer demand increased.While the company is expanding in Michigan, it said it would lay off 1,371 of the 5,464 workers at its plant in Belvidere, Ill. The factory, where Fiat Chrysler makes Jeep Cherokees, employs three crews of workers, and runs two 10-hour shifts six days a week. The job cuts will take effect May 6, after which the plant will operate two eight-hour shifts five days a week.A Fiat Chrysler spokeswoman said the carmaker had no plans to transfer Belvidere workers to the Michigan plants where jobs are being added.Fiat Chrysler was ahead of most of its competitors when it stopped making sedans in 2016 to focus on pickups, S.U.V.s and other large vehicles, whose sales were rising as gasoline prices declined. G.M. and Ford are now scrambling to catch up.G.M. announced last year that it would close two plants in the United States and a third in Canada that make cars. Ford said last year that it would stop making sedans, and is undergoing a broad restructuring to improve profitability. Both G.M. and Ford are eliminating thousands of salaried jobs as part of their cost-cutting efforts.When Bill Gates floated the idea of imposing a tax on robots a couple of years ago, Lawrence Summers, a former top economic adviser to President Barack Obama, called the Microsoft co-founder “profoundly misguided.” How do you even define a robot to tax it? And taxing innovation is a sure way to make a country poorer. Europe has also rejected the idea. In 2017 the European Parliament soundly defeated a draft motion, proposed by its committee on legal affairs, that recommended considering a tax on the owners of robots to fund retraining programs for workers displaced by the machines and shore up the finances of their social security system. And yet properly constructed, a tax on automation may not be as destructive as it sounds. South Korea, the most robotized country in the world, instituted a robot tax of sorts in 2018 when it reduced the tax deduction on business investments in automation. There are two sound arguments for taxing robots.  The easiest is this: Governments need the money. In the United States, income taxes account for half of the $3 trillion collected every year by the Internal Revenue Service; payroll taxes account for another third.Imagine that the fears about robots taking over jobs actually come true. Two years ago, the McKinsey Global Institute found that the job functions that are “most susceptible to automation” in the United States account for 51 percent of the activities in the economy and $2.7 trillion worth of wages. The institute estimates “half of today’s work activities could be automated by 2055.” If that happens, hundreds of billions of tax dollars would be lost every year.And at the same time that the rise of robots shrinks government tax revenue, the fallout from automation will place more demands on government services. The United States will probably need more money to retrain workers bumped from their jobs by automation, to give them a shot at a new one. Welfare rolls could grow, as millions of workers are displaced to the bottom end of the service economy, where wages are low and robots are scarce. To afford any kind of government services in the robot era, governments will have to find something else to tax. Why not the robots themselves?The case for taxing robots is stronger when you consider that a lot of automation these days is not deployed to enhance economic productivity. Instead, many businesses are investing in automation simply because the tax code is urging them to do so.The purpose of taxing robots is not simply to stop them from killing jobs. It is to level the playing field, to ensure that investments in automation raise productivity. “The tax system incentivizes automation even in cases where it is not otherwise efficient,” wrote Ryan Abbott and Bret Bogenschneider of the University of Surrey School of Law in Britain, in an analysis of tax policy toward automation in the United States and other rich countries. “The vast majority of tax revenues are now derived from labor income, so firms avoid taxes by eliminating employees.”Daron Acemoglu, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, explains that automation often produces benefits of dubious value to the business itself. More important, he suggests that the investment in technologies designed to replace workers has come at the expense of alternative investments that might find more productive uses for human labor. This may help explain the sluggishness in overall productivity growth across the economy. One powerful reason that businesses deploy so many robots, despite their sometimes questionable contribution to the bottom line, is that automation is subsidized. “Subsidies induce firms to substitute capital for labor even when this is not socially cost-saving, though it is privately beneficial because of the subsidy,” Professor Acemoglu and his co-author, Pascual Restrepo, wrote. The tax subsidies to robots are varied. For starters, machines don’t incur payroll taxes, which are used to fund Social Security and Medicare. For every worker replaced by a robot, the employer saves on payroll taxes. The federal tax code and many state governments allow companies to use “accelerated depreciation” for capital investments, which allows them to deduct the cost of their robots faster than they could deduct the wage of the payroll of the workers they replace.This means that eliminating the tax break for robots would not hurt economic growth. It would, in fact, improve economic efficiency. By subsidizing capital investment, the government is encouraging businesses to use capital when they otherwise would not, to replace workers with machines. That might be rational for the individual business reaping the tax benefits. But as Professor Acemoglu put it, across the economy, this kind of spending on automation “shows up as a productivity loss.”What’s more, curbing businesses’ pumped-up enthusiasm for robots might help mitigate the broader social costs of automation, which has flushed so many workers into unproductive occupations where cheap labor still holds an edge and knocked many more out of the labor force entirely.What is the best way to change the tax incentives for robots? One solution would be to disallow accelerated depreciation for investments in automation. Professors Abbott and Bogenschneider propose that businesses with high levels of worker automation could have their tax depreciation automatically reduced beyond a certain threshold.Businesses that use robots to replace workers could also be required to cover the payroll taxes of workers knocked out by automation, as proposed by the technology analyst William Meisel. A tax calibrated according to the ratio of a company’s profit to its employee compensation could match the wage taxes avoided by automation. Companies deploying robots could also be required to pay some kind of fee, just as employers that lay off workers must subsequently pay more into the unemployment insurance system.In practice, taxing automation is likely to be difficult. Taxing robots would, first of all, require defining what robots are. Would a robot tax also apply to, say, machine tools? Regardless of where we drew the line, a robot tax could distort investment decisions in other ways.Nonetheless, there is a wide gap between the way that the tax code treats human labor and the way it treats automation. The hole could be filled by reducing tax subsidies on capital investment altogether. Taxes on labor could also be reduced. We may not want to tax innovation, but there is no reason to subsidize investments that are designed merely to take away jobs. At the very least, a tax on robots would force businesses to think harder about when and where to deploy them.Eduardo Porter, an economics writer for The Times, is the author of a forthcoming book about race and the American social contract.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Kraft Heinz, the food giant whose products include Jell-O and Oscar Mayer meats, on Thursday released a surprising batch of bad news that included a multibillion dollar write-down signaling a plunge in the value of some of its most famous brands.In addition to the $15.4 billion write-down, Kraft Heinz said that last year it had received a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission related to an investigation into the company’s accounting and controls. It also reported disappointing fourth quarter earnings that led some analysts to ask whether the company’s stringent controls on costs might be backfiring.The company’s stock was down almost 27 percent as trading began on Friday.Kraft’s chief executive, Bernardo Hees, said the company’s earnings fell short because it did not deliver sufficient cost savings.“For that, we take full responsibility,” he said Thursday on a call with investors and analysts.The huge write-down appeared to come from a shift in how consumers eat, emphasizing fresh food over processed products. The write-down reduced the value on the balance sheet of United States and Canadian operations and the Kraft and Oscar Mayer trademarks, the company said.Kraft and Heinz, two stalwarts of grocery store aisles, merged in 2015 in a deal that combined the investments of 3G Capital, a Brazilian private investment group, and Warren E. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. Together, the two investment firms owned nearly half of Kraft Heinz at the end of last year. Mr. Buffett stepped down from the company’s board last year.But the company has struggled with both the changing tastes of shoppers and with cutting costs. On that latter issue, the S.E.C.’s scrutiny could add to investor concerns.Kraft Heinz said that the regulator looked at “agreements, side agreements, and changes or modifications to its agreements with its vendors.” With external accounting and legal advisers, Kraft carried out an investigation that led to it recording a $25 million increase in costs in the fourth quarter. The company said it should have recorded the $25 million in earlier periods.Kraft’s chief financial officer, David H. Knopf, said on the investor call that the misstatement “was not material to our current and prior year financial statements.”Kraft said it would make changes to reduce the chances of making similar accounting missteps in the future, adding that it was continuing to cooperate with the commission.3G Capital is well known for pursuing lower costs at the companies it owns. One analyst on Thursday pressed Mr. Hees on whether Kraft’s belt-tightening had gone too far and was now damaging some of its most prominent brands.“We still believe strongly that our model is working and has a lot of potential for the future,” Mr. Hees said.When it was reported in 2017 that the tech billionaire Peter Thiel had bought a 477-acre farm in New Zealand two years earlier for around $10 million under his New Zealand-registered company, Second Star, the deal rankled locals and politicians alike. Many wondered whether Mr. Thiel, a German-born naturalized American, had received special treatment so he could avoid the Overseas Investment Act of 2005, which required foreign buyers to seek official permission to buy “sensitive land” in New Zealand.As it turned out, Mr. Thiel had quietly obtained New Zealand citizenship in 2011, spurring widespread belief that he had not fulfilled the necessary prerequisites for naturalization. The controversy made him the face of a growing worry in the country: that wealthy foreign investors were inflating home prices and pushing native, first-time buyers out of the market.According to the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand, housing prices there rose by nearly 65 percent between December 2008 and December 2018, with the median home price in the country’s largest city, Auckland, almost doubling in that period. At the beginning of 2017, Statistics NZ, New Zealand’s official data agency, reported that just 63.2 percent of New Zealanders lived in their own homes — the lowest rate since 1951. So last August, prime minister Jacinda Ardern, made good on her Labour Party campaign promise to amend the Overseas Investment Act by designating all existing residential land “sensitive” — effectively banning foreigners from buying any existing homes in the country.New Zealand became the latest in a wave of governments placing restrictions on foreign investors, joining countries like Denmark and Switzerland, which have long restricted real estate investment by noncitizens. Other countries taking similar measures in recent years include Australia, which four years ago began requiring nonresidents to not only receive purchase approval from its Foreign Investment Review Board, but also to use the existing homes they bought as their primary residences, in an effort to soften prices for domestic buyers as foreign money flooded the market. In 2017, the Canadian province of Ontario instituted a 15 percent nonresident speculation tax on home purchases. Last year, Singapore and another Canadian province, British Columbia, increased their already hefty taxes on foreign real estate investment to 20 percent. Britain is considering adding a 1 percent tax on home purchases made by nonresidents, on top of its 3 percent tax on second-home and rental property purchases, and Malaysia is also eyeing new levies.Restrictions like these have led to slower growth in many of the areas that have adopted them. After years of big gains, some investors have seen profit margins shrink. According to the annual Prime Cities Index produced by the London-based real estate agency Knight Frank, which tracks the movement of home prices across 43 cities worldwide, prices are rising at the slowest rate since 2012. The “proliferation of property market regulations” is one of the biggest risks to prime real estate markets globally, the report concluded.In New Zealand, the new law, known as the Overseas Investment Amendment Act 2018, has met with a mixed response. Some, like David Parker, the country’s trade and export growth minister, see it as essential. Last August, Mr. Parker described it to Parliament as “a key part of the Government’s plan to improve housing affordability.” Others have scoffed at its restrictions on the free market and its air of xenophobia, claiming it is an effort to deter Chinese buyers, among the most active investors in New Zealand, from living there.At the center of the debate is how much, if at all, the new law will succeed in bringing prices down and homeownership up.Bindi Norwell, the chief executive of the Real Estate Institute, said that across the country, the growth in demand for housing from locals as well as foreigners is largely responsible for driving up prices. Tourism has increased the number of people moving to New Zealand, while a stable economy has discouraged natives from seeking opportunities elsewhere.“You’ve got more people wanting to move here, less people leaving, and so we’ve had a very strong migration over the last few years,” Ms. Norwell said. “That’s put huge pressure on the market. On the flip side, it’s really expensive for land, it’s expensive for construction, and that really limits the ability to develop a lot of houses and meet that demand.”As for the influence of foreign investors, Pene Milne, a sales associate at New Zealand Sotheby’s International Realty, said the data have been overstated. “The perception to the reality is a little incongruous,” Ms. Milne said. “The perception is that prices are forced up by nonresident buyers, but in reality, they only make up about 3 percent of the market.”Supporters of the law argue that the percentage doesn’t include properties bought through a trust or a corporation, and that the rate is higher in popular areas like central Auckland. But Ms. Milne said that because many overseas buyers are seeking high-end properties, the luxury market is more affected than the midlevel market, which is suffering from a shortage of homes.There are also several ways for foreign investors to get around the ban, said Shamubeel Eaqub, an economist at Sense Partners, a consultancy in Auckland. Because of pre-existing trade agreements, Australians, who make up the largest portion of foreign buyers in New Zealand, are exempt, as are citizens of Singapore. And the law doesn’t apply to new homes.In the four months since it was enacted, Mr. Eaqub said, “essentially what we’ve seen is the share of house sales going to foreigners and corporations has fallen a little bit, by 1 or 2 percentage points. I don’t think that will change, because fundamentally the policy can be worked around.”He regards the law as a political move. “This is part and parcel of that nativist pitch that we’ve seen around the world,” he said. “There’s this sort of general distrust of foreigners and outsiders and, from the political perspective, I think this gives them some credit. But in terms of whether it actually has an effect, it doesn’t look like it.”The ban has affected the number of sales, at least in the short term, Ms. Norwell said, noting that December saw a 12.9 percent drop in sales volume, making it the least active December in seven years. January was more on par with the past, with sales of residential properties down just 2.5 percent year-over-year, according to data from the Real Estate Institute.The summer months are typically slow in New Zealand, Ms. Norwell said, so it is too early to see any real effects of the law: “We really need another quarter’s data. But prices have continued to increase, particularly driven by the regional growth across New Zealand.”The high housing prices and limited supply in Auckland have driven New Zealanders into more affordable areas, she said, and demand is now pushing up prices in those areas. In Auckland, home to about 1.6 million people, the median price fell 2.4 percent in January 2019, to $800,000, the lowest median price since February 2016. Elsewhere, prices increased by 10.1 percent, to a median price of $473,300.The lack of inventory remains one of the biggest issues facing the New Zealand housing market. In 2018, about 33,000 permits for new homes or apartments were approved, up from the typical number of about 20,000, Mr. Eaqub said. The country would have to keep up that level of building for some time to catch up to its growing population, he added, but that isn’t likely, mostly because of increased construction costs and lower profit margins — unless the government steps in with some creative solutions.“They spent a lot of time and effort on banning foreign buyers, but it was never really well established how big a problem they were, and whether by bringing in the policy there would be a substantial effect on reducing house prices and making it more affordable for New Zealanders,” Mr. Eaqub said. “From what we have seen to date, there hasn’t been much of an impact.”LONDON — Wireless carriers have for years said the next generation network, known as 5G, will provide not only hyper-fast mobile phone speeds, but breakthroughs for data-heavy technologies like autonomous vehicles, robotics and artificial intelligence.So it came as a surprise last month when one of the world’s largest carriers, Britain’s Vodafone, said it was pausing some 5G investments in Europe. The decision stemmed from the roiling debate about the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei, and uncertainty over whether European countries would ban the company from 5G networks because of national security concerns being raised by the Trump administration.Vodafone’s decision involved only a small piece of its business in Europe, but shows how questions swirling about Huawei risk a cooling effect on the broader wireless industry. Even Huawei’s competitors have cautioned that the new uncertainty could harm business.A blanket ban on Huawei, the world’s largest maker of telecommunications equipment, would have a “significant implication” for the wireless industry, and lead to a “significant delay” in the construction of new 5G networks, said Nick Read, Vodafone’s chief executive.Huawei’s fate will hang over the wireless industry’s largest annual trade conference, MWC Barcelona, previously called Mobile World Congress, which starts on Monday. Typically a celebration of new handsets from Samsung, LG, Sony and other brands, this year’s conference in Spain is being overshadowed by less glamorous policy questions about how to safeguard the behind-the-scenes infrastructure that keeps those devices connected to the internet.“Many operators are now delaying their 5G investments because there is so much uncertainty related to whether they can work with Huawei or not,” said Mikael Rautanen, an industry analyst with Inderes Oy, a research firm. “That affects the whole telecommunications sector.”5G networks are considered critical to the future global economy, increasing mobile phone speeds by up to 20 times from the current 4G system, while also creating new applications in medicine, augmented reality and manufacturing. Telecom companies are starting to roll out the new systems this year, with wider adoption coming in 2020.Huawei makes the antennas, base stations, switches and other gear that make the technology work.The debate over Huawei is particularly intense in Europe, where network operators that have long relied on the company’s equipment are facing potential new regulations. Britain, Germany, France, Poland and the Czech Republic are among those considering new restrictions against Huawei.British and German authorities have indicated that a complete ban is unlikely, but the United States-led campaign threatens to slow down construction of the new technology in Europe that governments and businesses believe is needed to stay competitive in a digitized economy. The head of T-Mobile in Poland warned this week that new restrictions could disrupt the introduction of 5G technology.For a year, Trump administration officials have been working on an executive order that would effectively ban Chinese telecom companies, including Huawei, from American 5G networks. The order would block American companies from purchasing equipment from China and other “adversarial powers,” but would not stop purchases of European-made equipment.The wireless industry’s global trade group, GSM Association, said a ban of Huawei equipment in Europe would disrupt the overall market and increase costs for consumers.“The effects would be delay the roll out, delay the technology and very probably higher pricing,” said Boris Nemsic, chairman of Delta Partners, an advisory and investment firm focused on the telecommunications market.Huawei has become a lightning rod in the broader trade war between the United States and China. The Trump administration argues that Huawei is beholden to the Chinese government, and that allowing its equipment into 5G networks will create a grave national security risk — a charge Huawei has vehemently denied.The increased scrutiny of Huawei would appear to present an opportunity for rivals such as Ericsson and Nokia, but executives at the companies have said it risks creating a broader slowdown.“All our customers are trying to work out what this means, and that is causing uncertainty,” Borje Ekholm, the chief executive of Ericsson, told The Financial Times this month.Ericsson and Nokia, which declined to comment, have fallen behind Huawei in market share over the past decade, struggling to match its rival’s lower prices and large investments in 5G and other emerging technology. Many carriers say the Chinese company’s 5G technology is more advanced than that of its Western rivals.Despite being blocked by the United States, Huawei is the largest seller of telecommunications equipment, accounting for about 28 percent of the global market, according to the Dell’Oro Group, a market research firm. Companies such as Cisco Systems provide equipment like routers used by carriers in other parts of their networks.The new 5G networks represent a once-in-a-decade opportunity. In Europe, mobile carriers are expected to spend at least $340 billion by 2025 constructing the networks, according to GSMA.Ericsson and Nokia have been careful not to appear to take advantage of Huawei’s misfortune, perhaps out of concern that China would retaliate against the European companies if new bans against Huawei were introduced.The two companies each earn around $1.5 billion in revenue each year in China, according to an estimate by Pierre Ferragu, an analyst at New Street Research in New York. By contrast, Huawei earns $3.5 billion a year in Europe, Mr. Ferragu estimates.Any company forced to replace Huawei equipment will have to shoulder heavy costs. “It would take time for the existing vendors to scale R&D, operations, sales, services and partner agreements to fill the void,” the Dell’Oro Group said in a recent report.It may be for that reason wireless carriers that have long depended on Huawei are coming to its defense. Mr. Read of Vodafone urged governments to act carefully before imposing new restrictions, because much of the present debate was not “fact based.”“The noise level is at an unhealthy level,” he said.SAN FRANCISCO — Huawei, the Chinese technology company accused by the authorities in the United States of posing a security risk, is expanding its operations in Canada.Huawei said on Thursday that it would hire 200 new employees in Canada — an increase of about 20 percent to the company’s work force in the country. The new hires are part of an expansion of Huawei’s research and development efforts as it works to secure a place in the development of Canada’s 5G wireless networks.Huawei, one of the largest telecommunications technology makers in the world, is fighting to maintain its position under increasing pressure from the United States. American authorities believe that Huawei technology could allow the Chinese government to spy on countries that rely on the company’s wireless network systems.Huawei will increase its investments in Canadian research and development by 15 percent, building on a $136 million investment it made in 2018, the company said.The company has maintained a strong presence in Canada and Europe even as its business in the United States has been curtailed over spying fears. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Thursday warned that the United States would reconsider partnerships with countries that chose to use Huawei for communications networks.“If a country adopts this and puts it in some of their critical information systems, we won’t be able to share information with them, we won’t be able to work alongside them,” Mr. Pompeo said in an interview on Fox Business Network.As telecom companies in Canada, the United States and Europe begin building 5G networks, they have weighed whether to install Huawei’s hardware. The Trump administration has pushed American allies to avoid it, while Huawei has denied accusations that it spies on behalf of the Chinese government. President Trump hinted in a tweet on Thursday that his stance against Huawei might soften.“I want the United States to win through competition, not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies,” he tweeted.Huawei’s chairman, Liang Hua, emphasized the company’s 10-year history in Canada at a media event Thursday in Toronto, describing the country as “an open and inclusive place” that cultivates talent.“At the end of the day, we hope that the decision on 5G can be made based on technology, instead of other factors. We want it to be a level playing field,” Mr. Liang said through a translator.In December, Canadian authorities detained Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of Huawei and the daughter of the company’s founder, on behalf of the United States. American authorities accused Ms. Meng of participating in a scheme to violate sanctions against Iran and requested her extradition. She is currently free on bail in Vancouver.“I cannot say the U.S. charges against Ms. Meng are not politically driven,” Mr. Liang said on Thursday. “I believe she is innocent, and I hope that the Canadian legal system could bring justice back to her.”ISTANBUL — Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, met with the Saudi king and crown prince during a tour of the Middle East to try to build momentum for his long-awaited plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians, the White House said in a statement on Wednesday.The meeting, held on Tuesday, was Mr. Kushner’s first face-to-face encounter with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the day-to-day ruler of Saudi Arabia, since Saudi agents killed the dissident Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul in October.The Trump administration has stood by Prince Mohammed, who has forged a strong relationship with Mr. Kushner, even after American intelligence agencies concluded that the prince most likely ordered the killing.The White House statement did not mention Mr. Khashoggi, a Saudi citizen who lived in Virginia. His killing has tarnished Prince Mohammed’s reputation and spurred efforts in Congress to punish the kingdom. The White House issued its statement a day after the meeting took place, as public attention was dominated by congressional testimony by Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former fixer.Mr. Kushner’s visit to Saudi Arabia was closely watched across the region, in part because he was expected to solicit Saudi help for the administration’s peace plan. The Trump administration, in avoiding direct criticism of the crown prince, has argued that Saudi Arabia is a necessary ally in the Middle East and that its weapons purchases help the American economy.Mr. Kushner, King Salman and Prince Mohammed, the White House statement said, discussed the peace efforts, as well as American-Saudi cooperation and plans to improve conditions in the region through investment.It remains unclear what the administration’s peace plan will look like and how much the Saudis will support it.King Salman hosted President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority this week and declared that his country “permanently stands by Palestine and its people’s right to an independent state with East Jerusalem as its capital.”The status of East Jerusalem, which both the Israelis and Palestinians claim, is one of the most contentious issues in the conflict, and Mr. Kushner has given no indication of how his plan will deal with it.In a rare interview with Sky News Arabia this week, Mr. Kushner described the plan as “very detailed, very in-depth” and said it would “allow people to put the conflicts of the past behind them and to move forward and look forward to a really prosperous and exciting future.”Analysts who have followed the plan’s development said they had been told that it involved investing around $25 billion in the West Bank and Gaza over 10 years and an additional $40 billion in Egypt, Jordan and perhaps Lebanon, depending on their ability to meet certain goals. Others who have spoken with Mr. Kushner have disputed those amounts but agreed that the plan included investments of tens of billions of dollars in the region.It is expected that most of that money would come from the region’s wealthiest states, among them Saudi Arabia. Mr. Kushner’s other destinations this week include the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Bahrain and Qatar.On Wednesday, he met in Turkey with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.Armchair investors have been selling stock. So have pension funds and mutual funds, as well as a whole other category of investors — nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms and personal trusts. The stock market is off to its best start since 1987, but these investors are expected to dump hundreds of billions of dollars of shares this year.So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves. American corporations flush with cash from last year’s tax cuts and a growing economy are buying back their own shares at an extraordinary clip. They have good reason: Buybacks allow them to return cash to shareholders, burnish key measures of financial performance and goose their share prices.The surge in buybacks reflects a fundamental shift in how the market is operating, cementing the position of corporations as the single largest source of demand for American stocks. The binge has helped sustain a bull market approaching its 10th birthday, even in the face of political, international and economic uncertainty. Since the market rally began in March 2009, the S&P 500 has risen more than 300 percent as the United States recovered from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. But few expect those kinds of gains over the next decade. Facing the prospect of a period of relatively low returns — or even a bear market for stocks — many investors are eager to protect their gains or to find more appealing investments, like emerging markets and corporate bonds, outside the American stock market. “There’s no reason to be a hog,” said Rich Robben, interim chief investment officer of the Kentucky Retirement Systems, which manages more than $17 billion in the state’s retirement and insurance funds. “We’ve all eaten at the public equity trough very well for 10 years now. And we felt it was just time to reduce that exposure a bit.”Mr. Robben said his pension fund, which pays benefits to more than 100,000 retired state and county workers, has been cutting its stake in the domestic stock market for 18 months. Such prudence paid off late last year, when concerns about a sluggish global economy, rising interest rates and slowing corporate profits hit the market. The S&P 500 fell 14 percent in the fourth quarter, and 9 percent in December alone. That was the worst monthly performance since February 2009, and badly shook investor confidence. Since the worst of the sell-off, on Dec. 24, the S&P 500 is up roughly 19 percent. But data show that many investors remain nervous: In every week this year, money has flowed out of domestic stock market mutual funds and exchange-traded funds — as much as $15 billion in the last week of January, according to EPFR Global, which tracks flows into and out of funds. These investors, overwhelmingly individuals, have moved money into bonds and cash. Henry Crutcher has missed a bit of the rebound. Mr. Crutcher, a 44-year-old software company owner in Atlanta, saw December’s crack in the stock market as a buying opportunity and moved roughly 10 percent of his portfolio from cash into a Russell 2000 exchange-traded fund. After enjoying a couple weeks of rising stock prices, he sold it, missing much of the roughly 10 percent of additional gains that have come since mid-January.“Right now I’m partially invested,” Mr. Crutcher said. “I’m not totally sitting on the sidelines. But I’m more on the sidelines than I think I should be.”Survey data suggests portfolio managers at many mutual funds and hedge funds have also been skittish about chasing the market higher. A survey of global fund managers by Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month reported that those holding more money in cash than usual outnumbered their stock-friendly counterparts by 44 percentage points — the biggest margin since January 2009. Such statistics suggest that many investors failed to capitalize on the sharp snapback in stocks early this year. “The speed of the rally is uncomfortable,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “To turn from a seller to a buyer in a week is, again, psychologically very tough for people.”Corporations, however, don’t seem to be experiencing such angst. In the fourth quarter last year, American companies bought an estimated $240 billion of their own shares, according to an analysis by the Goldman Sachs team that handles stock buybacks for major companies. That’s nearly 60 percent higher than during the same period in 2017. More buybacks are coming. The Union Pacific railroad has bought nearly $32 billion in its own shares since 2007, and this month authorized buying over $20 billion more. The tech equipment giant Cisco has spent roughly $20 billion on buybacks in the past year, and has authorizations to spend another $24 billion. And Bank of America, which planned to buy $20 billion of its own shares by the end of June, just added $2.5 billion on top of that, the bank said this month.Besides returning cash to shareholders, buybacks offer companies two crucial benefits. They increase demand for a stock, helping to prop up share prices. Buybacks also improve a key gauge of profitability closely tracked by investors and analysts: When a company buys back shares, the same profits are spread over the smaller number of shares still outstanding, improving their earnings-per-share number. So far this year, companies have announced plans to repurchase a total of more than $190 billion of their own shares. That is only slightly behind last year’s pace of buyback announcements. And last year was a record for buybacks, as companies, in part thanks to the Trump administration’s tax cut, gobbled $910 billion of their shares, according to an analysis by Goldman Sachs. Before the early 1980s, buying shares with corporate money was considered a legal gray area because it might open a company up to charges of manipulating its share price. In 1982, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a rule that allowed share repurchases, provided they followed certain rules.Since then, stock buybacks have largely replaced dividends as companies’ preferred way to return to shareholders the cash they can’t spend productively. Shareholders like buybacks because they reduce the numbers of shares outstanding, which results in each remaining share being worth a bigger slice of the company. Taxes on buybacks can also be deferred until investors sell the shares, which are then taxed as capital gains. While share buybacks tend to increase companies’ share prices, critics blame them for stymieing corporate investment, hiring and wages. They argue that when a company spends its cash on buybacks, it leaves less money available for long-term capital spending and wages. Supporters of buybacks argue, however, that companies won’t make new investments or increase hiring if they don’t see a profitable reason to do so. They contend that banning buybacks would simply result in higher dividend payments and corporate cash holdings or a surge in mergers and acquisitions. Senators Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, and Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, said this month that they planned to introduce legislation that would limit buybacks for companies that did not pay their workers at least a $15 an hour, among other criteria. Also this month, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said he planned to introduce a bill that would change the preferential tax treatment of buybacks, though the details of such an approach remain unclear. But even if such proposals were enacted — and few Republicans have voiced support for Mr. Rubio’s idea — it’s not clear that they would derail the stock market’s ever-higher march. A number of other factors — most notably the Federal Reserve’s abrupt turn away from its clockwork pattern of interest-rate increases — have combined to restore confidence since the brutal sell-off that left the S&P 500 down nearly 20 percent for the year on Christmas Eve.The arrival of a solid, if unspectacular, batch of fourth-quarter earnings reports also quelled some investors’ fears about the outlook for the global economy and corporate profits.But the persistent flow of corporate money into the stock market has been a pivotal element in its recent rise. “Buybacks are likely the No. 1 cause,” said Brian Reynolds, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, a Canadian asset management and brokerage firm. Buybacks’ importance to the rally means any legislative push that results in less activity could act as a headwind to stocks, said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at the brokerage firm Weeden & Company. But if such changes don’t gain a foothold, corporate buying will most likely remain a cornerstone of the stock market in the coming years. This year alone, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated, corporations will be by far the largest buyer of shares, with net purchases of $700 billion. Traditional investors like mutual funds, pensions, endowments and individuals are expected to be net sellers, parting with roughly $400 billion in shares. BEIJING — China is poised to approve a sweeping rewrite of the country’s laws on foreign investment that it hopes will help pacify the United States and ease a rancorous trade dispute. The new rules would respond to some concerns among foreign governments and businesses but disregard many other worries.China has been locked in a bruising struggle with the United States over the Trump administration’s contentions that Beijing has repeatedly forced foreign companies to hand over technological secrets as a condition of doing business in China, and has failed to protect American companies’ products from counterfeiting and other illegal copying. Beijing has denied any shortcomings in its existing practices, and the new law does call for tighter enforcement.But the new law is made up of many single-sentence pronouncements on complex issues, with no details on how those rules would be carried out.“This is good, but it’s not enough,” said Carlo Diego D’Andrea, the chairman of the European Chamber of Commerce in China.There are some signs that a settlement of the trade war may be coming soon. Still, the new foreign investment law, if passed, would bar local and provincial officials from requiring that foreign companies transfer technology to Chinese companies.The most recent published draft, issued in late December, made no mention of preventing national government regulators from demanding technology transfers.The National People’s Congress said on Monday that it will debate the draft law on Friday and vote on it a week later at the close of the session. Approval is essentially automatic in the 2,975-member congress, which is tightly controlled by the Communist Party, although there is some room for last-minute amendments. The congress’s 11-day annual session opens on Tuesday.Zhang Yesui, the spokesman for the congress, said the law would “improve the openness, transparency and predictability of the investment environment, and provide more effective legal protection for the formation of a new, open system.”Chinese experts say the legislation would be a big improvement over the current environment in which foreign investment is regulated by three separate laws.Foreign experts are less sure. The European Chamber of Commerce in China said in a statement last week that the language used in the law was overly broad.The 2015 draft of the same law, which the legislature never approved, had 170 articles. But the final draft released for public comment in late December had just 39 articles, a third of which are a single sentence each.Over the last several years, as Chinese officials mused publicly about the possibility of a new law, there were some calls from foreign and domestic businesses for the laws on foreign investment to be merged with the laws for Chinese investors.Foreign businesses contended that they should be allowed to compete based on the same rules as local businesses. Some Chinese businesses also favored merging the domestic and foreign investment laws in the hope that they would be given more protection. For example, the draft foreign investment law requires that companies be fairly compensated if their assets are seized by the state — a rule that might benefit Chinese companies if they were in a similar situation.The European Chamber criticized the government for retaining separate rules for foreign investors. And Ker Gibbs, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, said that “foreign businesses should receive equal treatment and only be restricted from investing in areas that truly impact national security interests.”Western business groups are also particularly concerned that the law would require foreign companies to share detailed information about their operations under a new reporting system. That system would be used to keep score of how well foreign companies’ subsidiaries complied with local and national regulations, including areas like pollution, head count and labor disputes.Business groups wanted the law to include a ban on the sharing of information from the reporting system with Chinese competitors. But the most recently released draft does not include such a provision.Foreign business groups and business leaders have also been caught off guard by the way that China has fast-tracked the process of reviewing the new law.In China, draft laws often go through reviews that take several years. In this case, the law looked set to be voted on less than three months after being introduced, although a different, more comprehensive draft had been circulated by China’s Commerce Ministry in 2015.The standing committee of the legislature held an initial review of the new law on Dec. 26 and then issued the draft for public comment. It then held a second review at the end of January, just before the start of Chinese New Year celebrations and nearly a month before the deadline for public comments.Many foreign executives were out of town on vacation during both reviews, so there has been little discussion of the new law’s impact. The European Union criticized the government for moving faster on the legislation than China’s own rules for public comment normally allow.The draft law would establish a complaints procedure for foreign companies. But it indicates that such cases may be heard in Chinese courts, which are under the tight control of the Communist Party. Many judges in China have limited legal training and are chosen for political loyalty.James Zimmerman, a partner in the Beijing office of the Perkins Coie law firm, said that if the final version of the legislation next week called for cases to be heard in Chinese courts, practically no Western businesses would want to use the process.Western companies have been afraid of antagonizing Chinese regulators, who have broad powers to retaliate. They have also been reluctant even to tell their home countries’ international trade offices about cases in which they believe Beijing is violating its commitments to the World Trade Organization.So it is far from clear that they will start suing the Chinese government in its own courts.“Why would someone want to involve themselves in a politically driven process like that?” Mr. Zimmerman asked.The night before the winners of the 91st Academy Awards were announced at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, Zhang Wei, president of Alibaba Pictures, couldn’t fall asleep.She didn’t sleep the night after the awards as well. She was too excited as her company, the film arm of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group, had co-financed Green Book along with American companies DreamWorks Pictures and Participant Media. The $23 million film won this year’s Oscar for the best picture.Despite the considerably small investment for Alibaba－whose founder Jack Ma became the world’s richest Chinese on the Hurun Global Rich List on Feb. 26－the returns are huge. The company declined to reveal the actual sum invested in the film.Green Book scooped two other awards for the best supporting actor and original screenplay.According to the Nielsen company, ABC’s telecast of the Academy Awards ceremony drew 29.6 million viewers, up 12 percent from last year. More than a month earlier, Chinese distributors announced the film would open at theaters across the Chinese mainland on March 1.Boosted by the Oscar wins, the film has seen a rise in potential screenings and grossed more than 5.3 million yuan ($793,144) in presale revenues in China as of Feb. 27, taking the second-highest slot for March 1. The top is still occupied by Hollywood animated film How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World.Set in the early 1960s, when racism was rampant in the segregated American south, Green Book is based on the true friendship between world-class African-American pianist Don Shirley and Tony Lip, an Italian-American bouncer who was hired to drive and protect the musician on a concert tour to the country’s southern interior.The film stars Mahershala Ali, the winner of two Oscars for best supporting actor, including for Green Book, and Viggo Mortensen, who shot to international fame for The Lord of the Rings films. Ali is best recognized by fans in China for his appearance on the political drama series House of Cards shown on Netflix.After Green Book was released in the United States on Nov. 21, Chinese who watched it flooded to comment on the film review website Douban, averaging a score of 8.9 points out of 10.Zhang recalls the decision to invest in Green Book was made quickly after members of the company’s Green Light Committee－a panel of top decision-makers－watched the film.“We didn’t expect the film would win the Oscar for best picture. It’s really a surprise,” she said.Responsible for Alibaba Pictures’ overseas business, Zhang said the company has set internalization and globalization as important strategic goals after it was established in 2014.In 2016, Alibaba Pictures took an equity stake in Steven Spielberg’s Amblin Partners and the two signed a partnership to co-produce or finance films for global and Chinese audiences.Green Book is the fruit of this deal. DreamWorks Pictures is a production label of Amblin.The two are also working on co-producing A Dog’s Journey, a sequel to the 2017 hit A Dog’s Purpose, which was a sleeper hit that raked in 608 million yuan in China.Unlike Green Book, which Alibaba Pictures funded in part but did not get involved in its creation, A Dog’s Journey stars Chinese Canadian actor Henry Lau and the Chinese side has joined the team to give the final touches to the script. The film is due to be released in North American markets on May 7.“We wish to boost the exchanges between China and the rest of the world, take Chinese culture abroad and let foreigners learn more about China.“We also hope to bring quality content to China to enrich the viewing experience for domestic audiences,” Zhang said.But for China, the world’s second-largest film market that fancies special effects-studded action films and domestic comedies, Zhang still has her concerns.“Chinese films don’t depict racism, and the Chinese audience has less knowledge about America’s segregation history. Besides, the story is about two men, which probably lacks appeal for the female audience,” she said.But the diversity in taste among Chinese moviegoers will likely earn the film its space in the Chinese market, Zhang adds.Alibaba’s founder Ma alongside other celebrities such as Chinese computer firm Lenovo’s founder Liu Chuanzhi and actress Jing Tian were present at an advanced screening of Green Book in Beijing on Feb. 25.“I felt our world is still a very warm place after watching Green Book. A good movie does not have to take a lot of money or unfold an earthshaking plot,” said Ma.“To produce an excellent film, you have to authentically love cinema first, but not the fame or money brought by it.“Green Book is a story that awakens something inside you,” adds the business tycoon, who once shot a 20-minute Chinese martial arts film.Xu FanHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — Mark Zuckerberg’s “move fast and break things” mantra may no longer be Facebook’s modus operandi, but Silicon Valley’s demand for rapid growth is still strong. And the rise of the competitive landscape of artificial intelligence is only fueling it.Last year, venture capital investment in A.I. start-ups increased 72 percent from the previous year to a record $9.3 billion in the United States, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers report.Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn and a partner at Greylock Partners, said at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California that he looked very carefully at A.I. ventures to see how they were making new, interesting things possible and how he could bet on them early. He said current machine learning techniques, which are transforming fundamental industries, gave an amazing glimpse of the future.“My ideal investing is stuff that looks a little crazy now and in three years is obvious or five years is obvious,” Mr. Hoffman said.He voiced some concerns around how A.I. could transform the global landscape, likening it to the shift from the agricultural age to the industrial age.“You’ll see enormous changes from where the bulk of people find jobs and employment,” he said. “The first worry is what does that transition look like. That intervening transition is super painful.”And how ethically the technology will be developed will tie into who wins the race to build it. Some groups will care about human impact, others will not, he said.Mr. Hoffman recently released the book “Blitzscaling: The Lightning-Fast Path to Building Massively Valuable Companies,” which details his theory that the rapid growth of a company — above almost all else — is what leads to its success.And this attitude, he said, is why Silicon Valley continues to produce impressive tech companies.“Everywhere in the world recognizes that technology is super important, there’s super great talent everywhere,” Mr. Hoffman said.“It’s this understanding of the network of learning and this playbook of the first to scale is what wins the competitive race.”A recent report from KPMG noted there was a record $254 billion of venture capital invested around the world in 2018, up from about $174 billion the previous year.Jeffrey F. Rayport, a senior lecturer at Harvard Business School who teaches an M.B.A. course on scaling tech ventures, said founders were often at the mercy of intense demands and the “financing treadmill” from venture capitalists — a funding model that some Silicon Valley founders are starting to reject.“The world has become very sophisticated about how to scale technology ventures, and with that sophistication has come, in a sense, a very professional and very aggressive set of investors,” Mr. Rayport said.“The flip side of that is that once you put a venture on a path of successive financing rounds that are betting on exponential growth, then the pressure is enormous to deliver, whether or not it makes sense for the venture.”Young founders who “can’t scale into the opportunity they created” are a common occurrence. “They’ve got to figure out how to do 20 years of learning and development as leaders, as managers, as people, in a space of maybe two years,” Mr. Rayport said.Private equity offers the promise of exclusive deals, outsize returns and enviable cocktail parties.But as seductive as these investments are, they can trap investors with onerous restrictions like high capital requirements and longtime commitments.Simply put, private equity is an investment in an asset that is not traded on a public stock market. It’s a catchall term that also includes debt, real estate and various esoteric forms of financing — all of which have different expectations and risks.The high returns offered by these private equity funds, and the minimal regulatory oversight, draw investors with deep pockets, like pension funds and wealthy individuals, who can meet the minimum investment requirement. The downsides are that the fees are high and the money is typically locked in for at least four to seven years.That has not stopped the industry from growing. Private market fund-raising rose nearly 4 percent globally in 2017 to $748 billion, according to a review by McKinsey & Company. That year, the private equity firm Apollo Global Management raised a record $24.6 billion for its ninth fund.But investors must understand the risks. Private equity investments are less liquid than public market securities, for starters, which makes them harder to cash out in a market downturn. And investors may be required to put in money later, an agreement known as a capital call.“You always have to think about the margin for safety,” regardless of the type of investment, said Tony Roth, chief investment officer at Wilmington Trust. “What happens if it doesn’t turn out the way you’re thinking?”This is the fourth in a five-part series looking at highly desirable assets that can deliver great returns but can also become burdens when owners need to offload them quickly. Previous columns have looked at art, cars and collectibles.Private equity is different from the other types in this series because it is a financial investment, not a tangible asset. You can’t hang it on your wall, park it in your garage or serve it with dinner. But it has a cachet from the past successes of other investors, and the high barrier to entry creates an air of intrigue.The first step to making a private investment is understanding the pitch. After all, there are some 7,000 private investment managers across the globe.Determining the skill of the manager is important, so do your homework. Andrea Auerbach, global head of private investments at Cambridge Associates, a consultant and an adviser, said picking an average manager could affect your bottom line.The difference in returns between public equity managers who are in the middle of the pack and top performers was less than three percentage points, she said. But when it came to private equity, the difference in returns between mediocre and top managers was 21 points.A second step is spreading money across funds raised in different years, not just with different strategies. For instance, funds raised in the years before the recession made most of their investments when the market was at a peak, so they consequently performed worse than those that raised money in the years right after the downturn, when asset values were lower.A bigger problem for investors in 2008, though, was that private equity firms demanded money from investors in a capital call. The timing was bad because some investors had put their money in the stock market and had to sell their shares at steep discounts to avoid defaulting.“Most investors oversimplified it, which increased their risk,” said Adam I. Taback, deputy chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. “You have to figure in the growth of every other asset. What’s happened to the other 90 percent of your portfolio while you’re doing all this private equity planning?”Patience is a necessity in private investments.The marketing material for these funds suggest the investment will last about seven years, but in reality, with clauses in the documents about mandatory extensions, some of these funds can drag on for twice as long.“Let’s say you make a commitment to a manager and they turn out to be not who you think they are,” Ms. Auerbach said. “You can try to sell your slightly used private equity stake on the secondary market, or you can do your homework and make sure you can stay with the manager for 12 to 15 years.”“Everything,” she added, “takes longer than people think.”In the current economic cycle, advisers are urging their clients to do more due diligence and be cautious. “With at least a five- to seven-year outlook, it’s almost certain there is going to be a recession during that time frame,” Mr. Roth said.Investors should factor in periods of volatility. “When you know you’re going to have a recession, you need a much larger margin of safety than earlier in the cycle,” he said.To this end, Mr. Roth said, Wilmington Trust has formed partnerships with various private equity firms on behalf of its clients to make niche investments. One involved investing in distressed loans in Europe.In another recent deal, Wilmington Trust joined forces with a private equity firm that invested only in digital and personal security companies. Its $700 million fund, entering its second year, has already returned capital from successful deals.Uneven allocation can be a problem. As a private investment matures, managers are both asking for capital and returning money from earlier investments.“If you have $10 and want to go into small-cap equity, you write your check and you have your $10 of exposure,” said Katherine Rosa, global head of alternative investments at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. “With private equity, you commit capital and that’s drawn down over three-, four-, five-year periods and the distributions come back to you when the manager decides to sell that position.“So at any time,” she added, “the most you’ll be out of pocket is between $6.50 and $7.50 out of that $10.”That dynamic has tripped up some investors who pledged money to private equity funds that was allocated to another investment, hoping their returns would cover the call for more capital.For investors new to private equity, buying a stakes on the secondary market may be a good entry point, Ms. Auerbach said, because the buyer will have a sense of the fund’s performance and get returns more quickly.But the question remains: How much do you put into private equity to reap the benefits but avoid the downside? Unfortunately, there is no hard rule like the 60/40 split between stocks and bonds that serves as a baseline for investing in the public markets.Ms. Auerbach wrote a paper analyzing the private investment strategies of top-performing institutional investors and what individuals could learn from them. She found that most big institutions had at least 15 percent of their portfolio in private investments, with some going more than 40 percent.She said large, multigenerational families might be able to do the same, given their wealth and ability to remain comfortable with the illiquidity.Of course, that percentage depends not just on the asset base but also on a family’s spending. Ms. Rosa said clients needed to think about whether they could get returns on their other investments that were high enough to cover their lifestyle while they waited for their private equity investments to mature.That makes sense, but all those numbers need to be forecast out years, and by that time, the economy may have stalled.There was much to celebrate last spring when Ariel Emanuel, the chief executive of the talent agency Endeavor, helped throw a splashy Hollywood party for Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.The soiree, with guests including the Disney chief executive Robert A. Iger, the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the former N.B.A. star Kobe Bryant, took place as Saudi Arabia’s government investment fund was completing an agreement to invest $400 million in Mr. Emanuel’s firm. The deal was meant to finance Endeavor’s growth, while diversifying Saudi Arabia’s economy via the talent agency’s work in sports, events, modeling and television and film production.Less than a year after the star-studded party, Endeavor and Saudi Arabia have gone through a messy breakup, set in motion by the murder last October of the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.In recent weeks, Mr. Emanuel’s firm returned the $400 million investment, effectively severing Endeavor’s relationship with Saudi leaders, according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.It is one of the few instances of a major company halting business with the wealthy kingdom to protest its agents’ assassination of a journalist.A spokesman for Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, or PIF, which made the investment in Endeavor, did not respond to repeated requests for comment. Neither did Mr. Emanuel.Prince Mohammed has worked to turn the fund into a global investment giant whose profits can reduce the kingdom’s dependency on oil. On a high-profile tour of the United States last spring, the prince met with politicians, business leaders and celebrities. Many hailed him as a valuable business partner and a potentially transformative figure in the Middle East.On the prince’s American trip, the fund signed deals with the movie-theater company AMC and the amusement-park operator Six Flags to expand into Saudi Arabia. And it completed the investment with Endeavor, an alliance that Prince Mohammed hoped would lift the kingdom’s nascent entertainment sector.Then Mr. Khashoggi’s murder in October led to an international outcry.Richard Branson, founder of the British media and technology conglomerate Virgin Group, suspended talks with the Saudi fund over potential investments in his space-travel businesses. Executives from the private-equity firm Blackstone Group, the ride-sharing service Uber and Goldman Sachs canceled plans to attend a major investment conference in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.Mr. Emanuel joined the chorus. At an industry event in Cannes, France, on Oct. 15, he called the Khashoggi disappearance, about which many details had not yet emerged, “very, very concerning, really concerning. It’s upsetting.”Privately, Mr. Emanuel informed officials with the Saudi fund that he intended to return the $400 million that it had invested. Worried about the Saudi reaction, he began traveling at times with bodyguards, according to a person briefed on the matter.Mr. Emanuel canvassed other investors, including some who already had put money into Endeavor, to help fill the void that would be left when the firm returned the Saudi money, according to the two people familiar with the talks, including one who is an Endeavor investor.The process wrapped up in the past few weeks, with Endeavor investors kicking in money and the company repaying Saudi Arabia.Endeavor’s clean break with the kingdom has made it an outlier in the business community.Despite the American sanctions against 17 Saudis said to have been involved with Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, on top of the public outcry, most of the kingdom’s overseas partnerships have remained intact. Blackstone is using billions of dollars of Saudi money to invest in United States infrastructure projects. The asset manager BlackRock has said it will continue to manage Saudi funds. And Uber and other companies that accepted money from the Saudi government have not indicated any plans to return it.“People still want sovereign wealth fund money,” said Michael Maduell, president of the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, which provides research on government investment funds.Greg Fairchild, who teaches business ethics at the University of Virginia’s Darden School, said there was a strong argument for corporate leaders to follow Mr. Emanuel’s lead.While it might hurt in the short term, he said, “you can look in the mirror and say, ‘We’re just not involved in that.’”ROME — In a move certain to cause consternation among American officials and leaders of the European Union, Italy appears poised to help China extend its vast global infrastructure push deeper into Western Europe, part of Beijing’s sweeping plan to advance its economic interests and influence around the world.A first step toward Italy’s cooperation on the Chinese initiative, One Belt, One Road, would be the signing of a memorandum of understanding when President Xi Jinping of China visits Rome this month, Michele Geraci, Italy’s under secretary in the economic development ministry, said in an interview on Wednesday.“We are not yet as of today 100 percent sure,” said Mr. Geraci, one of the lead negotiators on the agreement. “But I think there is a likely, good probability.”If Italy takes such a step toward encouraging Chinese investment, it will be the first member of the Group of 7, the world’s richest economies, to actively participate in Beijing’s effort to build cargo hubs around the world to fuel its own economic growth.In recent months, top American diplomats in Italy have expressed concerns to leaders of Italy’s new government about the prospect of such a deal. Mr. Geraci said he and other Italian officials had considered those concerns carefully before deciding to proceed.Asked on Wednesday about the potential agreement, an official at the United States Embassy in Rome referred to comments by Garrett Marquis, a National Security Council spokesman, in the Financial Times. In those remarks, Mr. Marquis said, “We are skeptical that the Italian government’s endorsement will bring any sustained economic benefits to the Italian people, and it may end up harming Italy’s global reputation in the long run.”Mr. Geraci noted that there was currently very little Chinese investment in Italy compared with in the United States, and he sought to allay any concerns about predatory intentions by China.“I know China very well, and we are more able than others to spot any risks,” he said.He also said the estimated investments, a few hundred million euros in Italy’s ports, were essentially minuscule.“We are in no way tilting the geopolitical axis,” Mr. Geraci said, emphasizing that nothing in the deal would shift Italy away from its alliance with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or the European Union.He argued that cooperating with China on the infrastructure push would allow Italy, which is saddled with enormous debts and stuck at about zero growth, to export fashion, machinery, food, chemical and other goods to China in greater numbers. He said Italy’s current exports to China paled next to those of Germany and France. France, he said, sells seven times as much wine to China, and even Ireland exports more food and beverages there.Those countries have been aggressive in pursuing trade with China, but they have also been wary of One Belt, One Road investment in their nations.Germany and other countries have erected obstacles to foreign investment after Chinese companies, often with close ties to Beijing, bought big stakes in the carmaker Daimler, Deutsche Bank and Kuka, a German maker of industrial robots.Italy abstained this month when the European Union voted to approve a regulation giving countries more power to scrutinize and block foreign investment, especially when it is supported by a foreign government. But the regulation, clearly written with China in mind, allows countries to let foreign money in if they choose.ImageMichele Geraci, Italy’s under secretary in the economic development ministry. “It is a very fertile area for investment,” he said of the potential influx of money from China.CreditAngelika Warmuth/EPA, via ShutterstockEuropean leaders’ resistance to Chinese investment may have slowed, but it has not stopped. Direct investment by Chinese companies in the 28 countries of the European Union plunged 40 percent in 2018 to €17.3 billion, or $19.6 billion, according to a study published this week by the Rhodium Group, a consulting firm, and the Mercator Institute for China Studies in Berlin.Much of the decline reflected the reduced buying power of Chinese companies because of slower economic growth. And Chinese investments in Germany still rose €400 million, to €2.1 billion, last year with the acquisitions of a pharmaceutical company and an auto industry supplier, the study found.Money from China is still welcome in the poorer countries of Eastern Europe that are eager for investment. Chinese money is helping to finance improvements to the rail line between Budapest and Belgrade and Black Sea port facilities in Bulgaria.Chinese investments in the relatively small economies of Eastern Europe fell last year to €2 billion from €3 billion, according to the study. Since 2000, Chinese investment in the region has been about €7 billion, or about a third of what has gone to Germany. Hungary attracted about €2.4 billion of that sum, much more than any other Eastern European country.Italy has ports that are attractive to China in Trieste in the country’s northeastern region, in Genoa on the Ligurian coast and in Palermo, a Sicilian city close to Africa, where China has invested deeply.“All of these ports have the benefit of being closest to Africa,” Mr. Geraci said. “Without being in Africa,”For now, China’s most important port in Europe is the Piraeus port outside Athens, where the state-backed shipping conglomerate Cosco had taken control. Italy wants in on the action. Already this week, with the framework agreement pending, the port authority of Genoa is proceeding with a deal to create a new company with the China Communications Construction Company, Mr. Geraci said.“One way for us to increase trade values is to first increase investment” from China, he said. “This is done by these memorandums, One Belt and One Road. It is a very fertile area for investment.”The office of President Sergio Mattarella confirmed on Wednesday that Mr. Xi will meet with him in Rome on March 22 and be honored with a state dinner that evening. Mr. Xi is also scheduled to meet with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte. Mr. Geraci said China’s leader had also expressed a desire to visit Palermo.Mr. Geraci spent a decade in China teaching economics and writing financial columns before being called back to Italy in 2018 by Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, the populist leader, to work in the government with a concentration on China. During his time there, other Italian officials seemed to warm up to the country.In May 2017, the Italian prime minister at the time, Paolo Gentiloni of the Democratic Party, was one of the few Western leaders to attend the One Belt, One Road conference in Beijing.“Italy can be a protagonist in this great operation that China cares about so much,” Mr. Gentiloni said at the time. “It is a great opportunity for us, and my presence here speaks to how important we consider it.”But Mr. Gentiloni, a supporter of the European Union who believed in keeping a united European front, did not ultimately sign on for Italy to cooperate in the infrastructure initiative.The populists now in control of Italy’s government ran against Brussels and seem less interested in maintaining such unity.“The big change,” Mr. Geraci said, “is wanting to do things.”In recent weeks, politicians have offered a range of proposals that would impose new government restrictions on how companies use stock buybacks and dividends. While the proposals are billed as solutions to promote inclusive economic growth and sound corporate governance, attempts to restrict buybacks and dividends are misguided. They would undermine economic security rather than enhance it.Many companies rely on investments by individuals and institutions, such as pension funds, to finance their operations. Successful companies use this capital to generate profits, which they then deploy to expand, invest in research and development, attract and retain the best talent and invest in their communities. Companies also use profits to pay down debt or return capital to shareholders, via buybacks or dividends. This can make them more attractive to investors, and companies need investors’ confidence and support to flourish.How do companies decide what to do with their profits? Companies are always looking for ways to invest profits to increase their future growth. At some point, they may run out of investment opportunities with enough growth potential to justify an investment. In those cases, companies often decide to use their profits in another way, to buy back shares of the company or to issue dividends. Making it harder for companies to do so could force them to sit on cash or waste it on projects with a low potential for success. This is often not the wisest use of a company’s profits, as it can hurt growth and erode investor confidence.At the same time, returning some profits to shareholders is not necessarily a bad thing, either for the company or for society at large. Some critics of buybacks miss this point: Money returned to shareholders through buybacks and dividends does not disappear from the economy. Individual investors can use it to purchase something they’ve been saving for. The money can be lent to other companies that are hiring and growing. It can be invested in new businesses as seed money for start-ups or financing for emerging technologies. Moreover, it is a myth that buybacks and dividends displace investments that companies would otherwise make to grow or develop innovations. While there was a substantial increase in buybacks and dividends last year, business investment also increased substantially and grew at the fastest rate since 2011. American companies invested nearly $3 trillion in the economy during 2018, including $460 billion in research and development. And the firms doing the largest buybacks are also the ones doing the most capital investment. Among large public companies, those that repurchased stock in the first three quarters of 2018 tended to engage in more capital expenditures and research and development investment than those electing not to do buybacks, according to our analysis of Securities and Exchange Commission filings of companies in the S & P 500.Not only do buybacks and dividends support a stronger and more dynamic economy, they also contribute to Americans’ retirement security. According to the Federal Reserve, the majority of American households have direct or indirect ownership of corporate stock through pensions, retirement accounts or investment accounts. Similarly, stocks are owned by thousands of pension funds and mutual funds, and millions of Americans benefit from asset price increases or when shares in those funds receive a dividend.Of course buybacks, like other methods of raising and allocating capital, can be abused, as is the case when companies may attempt to artificially inflate their stock prices in the short term by buying back shares. To avoid such abuses, public companies should have strong corporate governance practices guiding how the decisions about stock buybacks and dividends are made, to ensure they are made with the long-term interests in mind.By contrast, imposing federal limitations on how companies decide to use their capital would stifle innovation and opportunity in America. Recent proposals to restrict buybacks and dividends, while presumably made with the laudable intent of increasing wages and capital investment, will only make it more difficult to achieve sustained and inclusive economic growth in the United States.Joshua Bolten is president and chief executive of Business Roundtable. Ken Bertsch is executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bentley Meeker had amassed 4,500 bottles of wine by 2009 when the recession began to affect his lighting and event business. So, as painful as it was to part with some of the finest wines in his collection, he began selling them.“I had to liquidate all of my good stuff,” he said, estimating he sold some 1,500 bottles.But he has no regrets. “What started out as a passion project kept my company afloat for easily a year,” he said, estimating that he netted $200,000 to $300,000. “We raised the cushion we needed to get through the recession, and I held on to key staff.”Collectible assets include wine, spirits, coins, trading cards as well as more unusual items, like lighters, belt buckles and even shrunken heads. These collections cost money and time to assemble and certainly have a value to their owners, but can they be considered legitimate investments? That depends on the market.For many collectors, the only option to buy, sell or even value these assets is through online auction platforms like eBay or enthusiast sites, but for others, their possessions are treated as fine art.But the market for collectibles, which are often valued in the millions of dollars, may not always be so easy to weather. It can experience sudden surges that put desired items out of the reach of true collectors or it can collapse, wiping out the gains speculators thought they had made.In an economic slowdown, how these investments are treated depends on supply and demand as well as unpredictable forces like fashion and popularity.This is the third column in a series on how owners of passion investments — those in which investors follow their heart as well as their wallet — should consider those assets when the economy softens. Previous columns looked at art and cars, and the next two will look at private equity and real estate.Collectibles can be broken into categories determined by provenance, rarity and even a moment in time. Here are five issues to consider when weighing the investment potential of your collection.The standouts in the crowdLeading the pack are high-quality items that have broad name recognition.In the past five years, for example, the value of Burgundy wine has increased by 105 percent, according to Liv-ex, a wine indexing company. That far outpaced a broader index of 1,000 wines, which rose by 42 percent over the same period.Whisky has had a solid run since the 2008 recession, according to auction reports, but one of the top brands is Macallan, a single-malt whisky from the Speyside region of Scotland. A bottle of 60-year-old Macallan sold last year at auction for $1.1 million; it was priced at $27,000 after it was bottled in 1986.“The Macallan has seen steep growth that levels out,” said Isabel Graham-Yooll, auction and private client director at Whiskey Auction. “Each time there’s a raised eyebrow and questions about whether it’s sustainable. And then it goes up again.”Macallan is a known, high-end whisky for sure, but like the Ferraris I wrote about last week, it is well marketed and managed by the distillery.But stars aren’t limited to spirits. This week, a trading card featuring the New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady from his 2000 rookie season sold for $401,000. The sale set a record for a football trading card and beat last year’s $250,000 price paid for a similar Brady card from the same set, said Brent Huigens, chief executive of PWCC, a marketplace that maintains an index of trading card values.The Brady card is an outlier in the indexes that PWCC has created, which are typically led by baseball cards. Other exceptionally rare cards include a 1909 T206 Honus Wagner that has been in a private collection since 2007 when it sold for $2.8 million.Still, Mr. Huigens pointed to a steady increase of the PWCC 500, a diversified portfolio of the 500 best cards that trade frequently. The index is up 165 percent since January 2008, while the S&P 500 is up 71 percent.High risk, high rewardNick Fiorella, who owns an insurance company in Stuart, Fla., won the Brady card at auction, but it wasn’t even his biggest card purchase that week. He also bought a 1952 Topps Mickey Mantle for $450,000.Mr. Fiorella said he considered cards like that as long-term investments. He buys newer cards to turn a quick profit, using an approach similar to a portfolio strategy.For example, he paid $50,000 for a set of cards depicting Ronald Acuña Jr., the Atlanta Braves outfielder named 2018 rookie of the year. “I could sell that for five times right now, but if he breaks his leg in spring training and never plays again, I’ve just lost $50,000,” he said.The same is true for other collectibles, like whisky. Ms. Graham-Yooll said bottles from distilleries that had closed could jump in value. The lower supply creates greater demand. But there are risks: The whisky might not be that great in the first place or the distillery might not have been able to afford the best casks to age the whisky.“You could say, ‘Yes, it’s worth buying,’ but what price is it worth buying at?” she said.Not all collectibles are investmentsColored gemstones have dominated the auction market for jewelry. A vivid pink diamond of nearly 19 carats sold for $50 million last year, topping all jewelry sold at auction. A pearl owned by Marie Antoinette came in second, at $36 million.But jewelry is not an investment, said Susan Abeles, head of jewelry for the Americas at the auction house Phillips, because the market is driven too much by changing fashion.“We guide our clients to make intelligent purchases,” she said, “but we can’t guarantee this is an investment.”She said that the auction prices were indicative of popularity, but that clients who needed to raise money often opted to sell their jewelry privately.Obscure and difficult to sellThe world’s largest collection of shrunken heads is valued at $13 million for insurance purposes. It’s certainly rare, but what is it really worth?“It’s hard to put a value on it,” said Ronald Fiamma, global head of private collections for A.I.G.’s private client group, which insured the heads. “And it’s pretty rare since they’re not making any more of them anymore. At least, I hope they’re not.”Another of the company’s clients has an extensive collection of Barbie dolls dating back decades.Mr. Fiamma said the insurer established the value of esoteric collections like these by using third-party appraisers. But insurance companies like A.I.G. value these collections by their replacement value, not by the price someone would pay for them.Would an owner actually be able to sell a collection of shrunken heads for $13 million? That depends on finding a buyer, which could take time. It’s more likely that a collection of that kind is donated to a museum.A market downturnWhether it’s shrunken heads, 1,000 bottles of wine or sheets of trading cards, a ready buyer may not be available — or may want to pay much less.Mr. Meeker said his collection of wine was probably worth close to $1 million at its peak but had fallen to $400,000 by the time he started selling it off. After that experience, he lost interest in collecting — and now just enjoys the wine he has left.Mr. Fiorella said he would look at trading cards as if they were any other asset if a recession hit his business and he needed to sell. He said he would assess the collection over all, as he would any portfolio, with an eye on keeping the ones that were likely to rebound.“The legacy of Jackie Robinson isn’t changing,” he said. “There are only so many 1948 rookie cards out there.”To the Editor:As a fighter for affordable, high-quality early childhood education, I applaud Katha Pollitt’s argument that the issue should rise to the top of the progressive agenda (“Day Care for All,” Sunday Review, Feb. 10). This need not be either a progressive or a conservative issue; rather, it is an American issue with value to everyone who wants children, families and our economy to thrive.Studies show that high-quality early learning has tremendous individual and societal benefits, with an initial investment yielding manifold returns. Governors and congressional leaders from both parties have led the way in investing in quality early learning; just last year, Congress and the White House delivered a great bipartisan step by providing the largest child care funding increase in history.Because more investment is needed, I want to see candidates running for all offices, in all states, from both parties, trying to outdo one another on the importance of investing in access to affordable, high-quality child care and early learning. Rhian Evans AllvinWashington The writer is chief executive of the National Association for the Education of Young Children.Stacie Lauren Rosenberg and S. Christopher G. Nieberding were married March 9 at the Polo Club of Boca Raton, Fla. Steven Sisskind, a family friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.Mrs. Nieberding, who is 27 and works in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is the manager for talent development at Envision Physician Services, a physician group and practice management company in Nashville.She is the daughter of Linda M. Rosenberg and Dr. Joel M. Rosenberg of Delray Beach, Fla. The bride’s father is the chief medical officer at TenX, a health care company in Sunrise, Fla. He was previously a cardiothoracic surgeon at St. Joseph's Hospital in Syracuse. The bride's mother works for WW International, where she is a leader in Boca Raton helping members achieve weight-loss goals.Mr. Nieberding, also 27, is the president and chief operating officer of TLG Investment Partners, a real estate investment and development firm, also in Fort Lauderdale. He graduated from Cornell.He is the son of Catherine Nieberding and Steven Nieberding of Cincinnati. The groom's mother worked at Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati before becoming a stay-at-home parent. His father retired as an accountant, also in Cincinnati.The couple met in New York in March 2015 through the dating app Hinge.ROME — The Teatro alla Scala in Milan on Monday decided to return more than three million euros in funding to Saudi Arabia, amid growing criticism that Italy’s premier temple of music should not accept money from a country with a jarring human rights record.Mayor Giuseppe Sala said the theater’s board of directors had deliberated over the issue and “unanimously decided to return the money.” The directors blocked several ventures that had been under discussion, including allocating a board seat to Saudi Arabia’s culture minister in exchange for substantial investments.Mr. Sala and other Italian officials said Monday that the decision was not meant as a snub to the Saudis. It was based instead, they said, on other considerations, among them the legal implications of foreign membership on the theater’s board, which would have been a first.“There is no black list,” said Mr. Sala.But loud catcalls — a specialty of La Scala’s audiences, as it happens — rang out in Italy when news of a proposed accord between La Scala and the Saudi government was made public in recent weeks.Of special concern was the possibility that a Saudi official could sit on the board of the opera house. The current nine members represent municipal, regional and national governments, as well as Italian banks and the Italian oil giant Eni.Saudi Arabia’s human rights record has long been controversial, and was criticized anew after Saudi agents killed a Washington Post writer, Jamal Khashoggi, inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul last October.Worldwide, companies and institutions have shied away from Saudi funding since the killing. This month, the talent agency Endeavor announced that it had returned a $400 million investment.Critics in Italy say the Saudi human rights record is discordant with the values of a democratic country embodied by La Scala.One Milanese society matron was quoted as saying that the conductor Arturo Toscanini would turn in his grave. A columnist for Corriere della Sera, Giangiacomo Schiavi, warned that Saudi Arabia, “a country that instead of respecting human rights, treads on them,” would gain legitimacy through La Scala.Some lawmakers joined the choir of dissent.Senator Maurizio Gasparri called on Italy’s culture minister to address Parliament on the issue. Italy’s deputy prime minister, Matteo Salvini, said he preferred “for some people” not to be on the board and “for La Scala to be free, independent and autonomous.”“If the Swiss want to invest in La Scala,” Mr. Salvini said, “we would not have a problem.”Similar outrage greeted the decision to stage a showcase soccer game, the Supercoppa, between the Italian teams Juventus and A.C. Milan in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, in January.Alexander Pereira, La Scala’s superintendent, began meeting with Saudi officials last year to come up with summer tour dates for performances in Riyadh for 2019 and 2020. The discussions broadened to include the possible establishment of a music and dance conservatory for children in Riyadh in conjunction with the  Accademia, La Scala’s arts schools.Saudi officials also broached the possibility of joining the theater’s board of administration, Mr. Pereira said in an interview published in La Repubblica, the Rome daily, earlier this month.To secure a spot on the 15-member board, a sponsor has to make a financial commitment of at least 15 million euros — about $17 million — over five years. The aspiring board member must also be approved by the board and by the theater’s assembly.Mr. Pereira told La Repubblica that the Saudis were eager to commit and that La Scala’s board had agreed that such an agreement “was an opportunity to grab onto.”Mr. Sala, who as mayor of Milan is president of the board, said he appreciated Mr. Pereira’s fund-raising and partnership-building skills, which have allowed the theater to flourish.But in the case of Saudi involvement, the mayor said, “discussions happened too quickly.” Mr. Pereira, he said, had “misunderstood the situation.”Mr. Sala said that the process for joining the board was “complex” and that, in the case of the Saudi culture minister, had never been officially initiated. The Saudis sent three million euros and the money was placed in an escrow account until the board could vote on their membership. The board rejected it on Monday.“We decided we don’t need other board members, the group is fine as is,” Mr. Sala said in a telephone interview.The mayor did, however, appear to leave the door a little open.“It’s true that there is no intention to have Saudis on the board,” he said, “but that doesn’t mean that there is a diktat against the Saudis, that we’re not open to other forms of collaboration.”Mr. Pereira declined to be interviewed, but Paolo Besana, the theater’s spokesman, confirmed that such substantial foreign investment would have been a first. “The theater’s statute allows for foreign members of the board,” he said, “but obviously this becomes more delicate if the member is a foreign state.”Mr. Besana said that the opening of the conservatory in Saudi Arabia had been placed on hold but that the organization of the summer tours there was continuing.Italy’s culture minister, Alberto Bonisoli, was among those expressing concerns about the presence of a “representative of a foreign government on the board of a cultural institution.” He said it could give rise to diplomatic crises should problems arise within the board, requiring ministerial oversight, his spokesman, Giorgio Giorgi said.But the minister also believes that “collaboration on cultural initiatives and projects” is an integral part of Italy’s cultural diplomacy, Mr. Giorgi said.Mr. Sala said he wanted to keep channels of communication open with Saudi Arabia. Though the country’s human rights abuses are “very critical,” he said, “sports or music can be ways to support change in that culture.”“We should try to find the right solution,” he said.AVONDALE, Ariz. — A hotel groundbreaking ceremony here in an old cotton field not far from Interstate 10 last month featured two United States senators, a hot catered lunch and a stream of speeches about driving economic investment to this corner of the Southwest that is still recovering from the Great Recession.Whether they were celebrating the beginnings of a wave of investment in distressed parts of America, or just another Marriott property, could hinge on a coming decision by the Trump administration.A new batch of tax regulations from the Treasury Department will establish the most comprehensive guidelines yet for what sorts of investments qualify for tax benefits associated with opportunity zones, which were created by the 2017 tax law, and how investors must proceed in order to take advantage of them.Potentially billions of dollars are waiting on the Treasury’s decision. Civic leaders in areas like Avondale, which is still hurting from the 2008 housing crisis, are hoping the rules will be broad enough to improve the odds of attracting new businesses that offer well-paying jobs to residents. Investors, eager to put money into the tax-advantaged opportunity zones, are also clamoring for guidelines that could determine the types of projects they can back.Among the money dependent on the Trump administration’s rules is $22 million in investment guarantees, to be announced Monday by the Kresge Foundation, to support two socially conscious investment funds that hope to pour $800 million into manufacturing, clean energy and other business development in Opportunity Zones.The zones are a creation of President Trump’s signature tax law that use tax advantages to lure capital to economically lagging cities, suburbs and rural areas. So far, they have stirred growing investor interest, including from Wall Street, and criticism from some tax experts who worry they will serve mostly as a handout to the rich.Most of the projects spurred so far by the zone designations are real estate, like condominium developments, or hospitality, like the SpringHill Suites by Marriott project started here in Phoenix’s west suburbs by a private equity group called Virtua Partners.Whether the zones can ultimately spur other types of investment, like small businesses and start-up technology companies, will depend on how the rules are structured. Treasury officials have sent the White House a draft version of what will be the second batch of regulations governing so-called opportunity funds, which invest in Opportunity Zones, and what types of investments can qualify for the special tax treatment.The tax break works by allowing investors to roll capital gains from other investments into the funds. Taxes on those original gains are deferred and, if the investment is held for several years, can be sharply reduced. Adding to the attraction is the potential for investors who hold their money in the opportunity fund for a full decade to be exempt from any capital gains taxes on that investment.Conflict over the regulations reflects, in part, a tension among officials concerned most with limiting the potential for investors to exploit loopholes in the program in order to reduce their tax bills, and those most concerned with maximizing investment in struggling parts of America.In the first batch of regulations, Treasury officials took a more restrictive approach, according to documents obtained through a Freedom of Information request. But those were ultimately overruled by the White House, which prevailed on several points that investors had championed, those records show.A recent Internal Revenue Service hearing on what will be the second batch of regulations was dominated by investors and civic leaders requesting changes and additions to the rules in several areas that could deter investment in start-up companies.Those include a provision that currently requires qualifying businesses to earn 50 percent of their income inside the zones, which would seem to limit businesses that make money by exporting goods or selling them online. Investors are also seeking flexibility to sell their stake in a business before the end of a decade and use the proceeds to invest elsewhere in an opportunity zone.Investors also want to clarify a rule that forces them to “substantially improve” an asset in order to qualify for the tax benefit, to ensure that biotech, software and other start-ups that deal largely with intellectual property can meet the test.“The second tranche of regulations is a moment of truth for investors and communities,” said John Lettieri, the president of the Economic Innovation Group think tank, who was an architect of the Opportunity Zone concept. The difference in potential investment in the zones between favorable and unfavorable regulations, he said, “is orders of magnitude.”While investors wait for clarity, the existing regulations have “frozen some of the market for business investment,” said Steve Glickman, another architect of the concept who now runs an Opportunity Zone-related consulting business called Develop L.L.C., and who has produced an Opportunity Zone Index to help investors find and select promising zones for projects.The Kresge guarantees, for example, are meant to help two funds — run by Arctaris in Boston and Community Capital Management in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. — deploy $800 million into Opportunity Zone projects like solar farm development in Flint, Mich. In exchange, the funds are committing to a set of rules that would require them to invest in creating living-wage jobs, form community advisory boards and seek to avoid displacing residents from those zones. They will also compile and share data on the quality and impact of their investments, which is not currently required by the federal government.But they are dependent on the outcome of the regulations, and whether they will encourage business projects. “These are practical concerns for us,” said Aaron Seybert, a social investment officer at Kresge. “We need to quantify the risk that we’re taking.”The existing regulations have made that calculation relatively easy for real estate investors, who are accelerating previously planned projects in the zones and starting new ones that might not have worked without the special tax treatment. That activity has already paid off for incumbent landowners in Opportunity Zones, according to research by the real estate firm Zillow: Average sales prices in the zones jumped 25 percent last fall, compared with the year before.City officials welcomed the new hotel to Avondale, a majority-Hispanic city of 84,000 people that is still recovering from the burst housing bubble a decade ago. At one point, 40 percent of the city’s homeowners were underwater on their mortgage or had fallen into foreclosure.Conditions have improved, slowly, and developers have added 200,000 square feet of new retail space in the last five years, city officials said. But Kenn Weise, the mayor, said the city still needed help — and real-estate development won’t do it alone.The city, Mr. Weise said, needs to revitalize its historic downtown, which has fallen on hard times, and it needs businesses to employ the more than 80 percent of workers who live here but endure long commutes to other parts of the metro area, where the jobs are.“This part of it is easy,” Mr. Weise said under the shade of a white tent here recently, gesturing toward the row of shovels that were about to break ground on what will be the latest in a recent string of new hotels near the freeway in and around Avondale. “This is the low-hanging fruit.”The more far-flung dignitaries gathered for the ceremony made similar points, even as they praised Virtua and Hotel Equities, the company that will manage the new hotel. “At the end of the day, real estate development is a very important step forward,” Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina and the principal champion of the Opportunity Zone provision in the tax law, said in a brief speech. “Bringing jobs into the community is a leap forward.”Virtua Partners has 15 projects in the works in the Phoenix area alone, including a townhouse development on the site of a crumbling RV park in nearby Surprise, and more than 100 total projects planned in zones around the country. Construction in the Avondale cotton field will create 120 temporary jobs and 30 permanent ones in the hotel, which officials at the groundbreaking promised would provide pathways for employee advancement.“Our goal is to give everyone the opportunity to move into the middle class,” Quinn Palomino, Virtua’s chief executive, said at the groundbreaking, which along with Mr. Scott also featured Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona, and Jan Brewer, the state’s former governor.But even real estate investors would like more from the Treasury in the next round of regulations. In an interview, Ms. Palomino said she hoped the government would mandate reporting on metrics such as the number of jobs and affordable housing units created in the zones.“Everyone’s running to this industry,” including a lot of people without the background in real estate development, she said. “It’s pretty scary out there, some of the projects that are coming in. Kind of, two guys in the back of a van, trying to get an Opportunity Zone project done.”SAN FRANCISCO — Uber is in talks to sell a stake in its self-driving technologies unit to SoftBank and other investors for as much as $1 billion, as the ride-hailing company prepares to go public, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.The talks are still underway and may not result in an investment, said the people, who asked for anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. Apart from SoftBank, the investor consortium includes an automaker, they added.Under the terms of the proposed deal, investors would purchase from a pool of Uber stock specifically earmarked for the self-driving technologies unit. Uber would maintain majority control of the self-driving arm and would use the investment to fund its research and development. The deal would value the self-driving business at $5 billion to $10 billion, the people said.Uber filed confidentially to go public in December in what would be one of the largest tech initial public offerings of recent years. The company, based in San Francisco, could hit a valuation of $120 billion when it reaches the stock market.But Uber is under scrutiny for its losses — its net loss was $842 million in the fourth quarter — and self-driving technologies are expensive. A $1 billion infusion could ease worries about how costly it is to develop autonomous cars.The proposed investment was earlier reported by The Wall Street Journal.Uber has for years invested heavily in self-driving cars, which it has said will eventually become a primary mode of transportation, replacing its human drivers. But its autonomous unit, formed in 2014, loses between $100 million and $200 million each quarter. Its fleet of vehicles was also grounded for nine months last year after one of the autonomous cars struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona. In the past, Uber has considered spinning off the unit as a separate entity.Uber Freight, the company’s long-haul trucking business, also has a separate valuation based on pools of equity specifically earmarked for the unit. As part of an agreement with employees, the company rewarded them with equity in Uber Freight as a stand-alone business late last year.SoftBank is already a major investor in Uber after it acquired about 17.5 percent of the ride-hailing firm’s stock last year at a significant discount. In addition to Uber, SoftBank has poured money into ride-hailing companies such as Ola in India and Grab in Southeast Asia.SoftBank has also invested in businesses focused on autonomous vehicles. In mid-2018, the firm invested $2.25 billion in GM Cruise Holdings, a division of General Motors. Structuring Cruise as a separate entity made it possible for General Motors to isolate the losses from its autonomous division.In August, Toyota invested $500 million in Uber. The move was meant to let Uber put its self-driving technology in Toyota vehicles.“Toyota constantly reviews and considers various options for investment, but we do not have anything to announce about a further investment in Uber at this time,” a Toyota spokeswoman said on Wednesday.Frans and Caroline Swaalf, management consultants in the Netherlands, have been enamored of South Florida since they were graduate students at the University of Miami in the 1990s.When the housing crisis hit in 2007, they thought their time to buy had come. They bought a condo in the Fontainebleau, a resort in Miami Beach, in 2010, after prices had bottomed out, paying 60 percent less than it had sold for two years earlier. The condo has since doubled in value.The Swaalfs began investing in other properties. In 2011, they bought a small condo in an Art Deco building and doubled their money when they sold it six years later. They put that money into a larger condo in Miami that overlooked the water, and then looked for a buyer. But Mr. Swaalf expects to make only 5 to 10 percent when the sale closes.That was a signal to the couple that the market was slowing and that it was time to put their investment gains elsewhere. Prices in the Miami area have cooled since September, according to Trulia, a real estate search engine.Real estate investments, whether residential or commercial, have long been associated with wealth creation in the United States. The 2007 housing crash put a damper on that; the market lost about a quarter of its value over two years. Housing has since stabilized, although sales have been sluggish in the face of rising interest rates.In a recession, though, the value of real estate — a mix of the home’s or building’s value and its location — becomes harder to discern. An investment can become illiquid when the market drops as the number of buyers dries up, and sellers have to learn to be patient to avoid taking a loss.“Real estate has a good track record,” said Peter Heilbron, senior investment officer at Northern Trust. “But we know that these downturns are going to come along from time to time.”Mr. Heilbron equated housing losses in 2007 to what happened to stocks after the Great Depression. “It’s not that the market went down — it’s that people needed to sell the stocks on the way down,” he said. “If I get into a downturn today, am I going to have to sell the things that I really need?”This is the fifth and final installment in a series looking at how people manage passion assets, those that produce tremendous investment gains and carry social cachet and provide personal enjoyment. But when the economy slows, they can be hard to sell and can act as a drain on a portfolio. Previous columns have looked at art, cars, collectibles and private equity.Real estate traditionally has two prongs: residential properties that owners live in or rent out, and commercial real estate like apartment buildings, office space and shopping centers that are bought and sold based on the revenue they generate.For residential owners, the risks can be greater going into a recession. The value of their home is almost always a bet on appreciation, which is no guarantee.“Where it tends to work out better than not is at the top tier,” said Karen Harding, leader of the private wealth practice group at NEPC, a wealth adviser. But owners of luxury properties face additional costs, she said: “They’re going to spend a lot of money for the upkeep and maintenance.”Several high-end property markets are softening, which presents a buying opportunity — or a selling crisis. New York is still in the midst of a boom for high-end properties. Kenneth C. Griffin, founder and chief executive of the hedge fund Citadel, paid a record $238 million in January for a penthouse apartment overlooking Central Park.But parts of the Manhattan market have cooled, said Noble Black, a broker at Douglas Elliman. “The era of aspirational pricing is over,” he said. “Anyone who is selling a property is selling it for less today than 12 to 18 months ago.”Allison Turk, a broker with EWM Realty in Miami who advised the Swaalfs, said that some neighborhoods, like Coconut Grove, were flourishing, but that buyers had to be more selective and sellers more pragmatic.For commercial properties, investors should focus on price and long-term returns, but there are such enormous tax advantages for real estate that losing money may seem hard to do.The oldest tax break is the 1031 exchange, named for its section in the Internal Revenue Code. It is also known as a “like-kind” exchange and traces its roots back to farmers trading parcels of land to create contiguous farms. They were able to do so without paying any capital gains tax on the swap.Since then, these exchanges have come to include all manner of real estate transactions in which enormous taxable gains are rolled into another property of equal or greater value. In theory, capital gains taxes on real estate might never be paid if the owner dies and the property is passed on to heirs.This break was pared back in last year’s tax overhaul to exclude collectibles like art and cars. But interest in it remains strong. David Gorenberg, a vice president at Wilmington Trust, said business was growing because real estate values had increased so much over the past decade.But these transactions carry risk, particularly in a slow market. During the last recession, Mr. Gorenberg said, investors who hoped to take advantage of a 1031 exchange were unable to buy a new property to complete the deal and ended up having to pay taxes on the property they sold.“It’s always a good idea to know where you’re going before you leave where you are,” he said.A new tax incentive for real estate is the opportunity zone, which allows people with any sort of capital gains — not just from real estate — to invest in real estate and businesses in designated communities. But to realize the full tax benefit, investors must leave their investment in the opportunity zone for 10 years, during which a recession could occur.Residential or commercial, properties have carrying costs, like debt on the property and associated taxes, which are known up front. But there are also variables like maintenance and insurance costs.With any investment property, some or all of these expenses can be tax deductible. State and local taxes, for example, can be claimed as a deduction on a business asset.This strategy has helped some affluent owners in soft markets. Chris Zander, president of Evercore Wealth Management, said clients struggling to get the price they wanted had turned to renting the homes to offset the carrying costs.“If it’s a large property, the ongoing costs are significant,” he said. “Renting may be an option to ride out a downturn or allow you to find that unique buyer for that property.”Historically, rental revenue has remained stable in downturns — although a luxury home is more difficult to rent than a standard two-bedroom apartment.“The rent on a $1 million house isn’t 10 times the rent on a $100,000 house,” said Gary Beasley, chief executive and founder of Roofstock, a marketplace to buy and sell investment properties. “Your yield tends to go down as the price goes up. Typically, the less expensive the home, the higher yield you can generate.”Still, what matters are the price you paid and the rental income you’re getting above the costs of the mortgage and maintenance.Real estate also needs to be considered against other assets in a portfolio to ensure there is sufficient cash to withstand a downturn.“People collect passion assets and invest in them episodically, but they do not think about them in total,” Mr. Zander said. “You really need to model all of that out and see where you are. That’s how these liquidity squeezes can happen.”As for the Swaalfs, they are leaving the door open to investing in South Florida real estate again.“It could be that we’re back in Miami with another president and after a recession that will make the market more interesting,” Mr. Swaalf said. “If you have the patience, a bear market recession can be bad, but it usually doesn’t last long. You just need the time in life.”TAIPEI, Taiwan — Taiwan’s president, Tsai Ing-wen, will travel to the South Pacific on Thursday to shore up ties with three island nations that still recognize Taiwan as a country, in an effort to offset China’s expanding influence in the region.Only 17 countries recognize Taiwan’s government, and among those, Ms. Tsai will be visiting Palau, Nauru and the Marshall Islands.China has been pouring aid and investment into the Pacific islands, raising the question of whether Beijing could strip Taiwan of more of its few remaining diplomatic allies and shrink the self-ruled island’s international presence.The Trump administration has sought to push back against China’s reach in the South Pacific and Latin America. Australia is also concerned, and last year set aside more money in its budget for Pacific aid.For the small, developing countries that still recognize Taiwan, the primary reason to consider switching recognition to Beijing from Taipei is the aid and investment that China offers. But potential economic benefits may come at a cost, officials and analysts in Taiwan and the United States have warned.“Growing Chinese economic influence over time may be translated into political and strategic influence,” said Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Commercial investment in a port, for example, could lead to military access, she said. “This is especially of concern in Latin America, a region that the U.S. has long considered its backyard.”United States diplomats have argued to Taiwan’s allies that relying too heavily on China is risky, Ms. Glaser said. They have provided data about debt traps they say China has created elsewhere, she added.The spokesman for Taiwan’s presidential office, Chang Tun-han, would not confirm if aid or investment packages would be announced during Ms. Tsai’s eight-day trip. Ross Feingold, a political analyst in Taipei, Taiwan’s capital, said that with elections coming up in Nauru and the Marshall Islands this year, Ms. Tsai was very likely to pledge assistance of some kind.Ms. Tsai will make a stop in Hawaii on her way back next Wednesday — a transit that could annoy Beijing. The United States shifted to recognizing China’s Communist government in 1979, but still maintains unofficial relations with Taipei.China considers Taiwan to be part of its territory and has long sought to reduce the number of countries that recognize it. Since Ms. Tsai came to power in 2016, Beijing has poached five of Taiwan’s diplomatic allies. China has also stepped up pressure on the island democracy by increasing its military activities near Taiwanese waters and airspace.For Taiwan’s government, the 17 countries that still officially recognize it are of symbolic importance because they support Taiwan’s claim to statehood. The most immediate questions hang over two Pacific island nations that Ms. Tsai will not be visiting — Kiribati and the Solomon Islands.According to Taiwanese news reports, she had initially planned to visit Kiribati on this trip, but the stop was called off because of what officials said were scheduling conflicts. Last May, initial plans for a visit by Ms. Tsai to Burkina Faso were similarly shelved shortly before the country severed ties with Taipei.Rick Hou, the prime minister of the Solomon Islands, has said he will review the relationship with Taiwan if he is re-elected this year. China has become a major export destination for the Solomon Islands in recent years, primarily driven by unsustainable logging of the country’s rain forests.China is aggressively pumping money into the South Pacific via President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative, said Karl Eikenberry, director of the U.S.-Asia Security Initiative at the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center. The Chinese initiative is a sweeping plan for infrastructure investment to more closely link China with Asia, Africa and Europe.“A lot of the money that they’re investing isn’t transparent,” Mr. Eikenberry said at a news conference at Taiwan’s Institute for National Defense and Security Research on Tuesday. “It’s corrupting political systems.”“Do they see strategic utility in having a presence in those Pacific island nations?” he said. “The answer is yes.”Late last month, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke at a gathering of South Pacific nations, including the leaders of the Marshall Islands, Kiribati and Palau, praising the countries for their recognition of Taiwan.“We respect and support the decision those of you have made to continue to support Taiwan,” Mr. Pompeo said.Latin America is also a source of worry for Taiwan.Taiwan’s foreign minister, Joseph Wu, told journalists last week that China is using its large state-owned construction and engineering companies to approach governments of Taipei’s diplomatic allies in Latin America about switching recognition to Beijing.“All these countries that are not able to finance the projects themselves need to get loans from China — that’s debt-trap diplomacy,” Mr. Wu said.Mr. Wu cited as examples Panama and El Salvador, which normalized relations with China in June 2017 and August 2018.The Trump administration has stepped into the diplomatic tug-of-war. In September, the State Department recalled its top diplomats from the two countries, as well as the Dominican Republic, which dropped Taiwan for China last May.El Salvador’s ties with China have become a question. Nayib Bukele, the new president-elect, said after a speech at the Heritage Foundation in Washington this month that he was reviewing his country’s relations with Beijing, suggesting that reverting to recognition of Taiwan was a possibility.Before Mr. Bukele was elected last month, his predecessor, Salvador Sánchez Cerén, met with Mr. Xi and secured $150 million in aid from China for 13 projects, the details of which were not made public.Mr. Bukele said Beijing was selling projects to countries that cannot repay the loans that come attached to them. “They go in, they do projects that are not feasible, then they leave the countries with huge loans they cannot repay and they use as a kind of leverage.”John Bolton, President Trump’s national security adviser, met with Mr. Bukele during his visit and said the United States would work with Mr. Bekele to “counter Chinese predatory practices.”Lu Kang, a spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, told reporters last week that the ties between China and El Salvador “should be cherished by both sides” and that Beijing would work with Mr. Bukele to “steer clear of external disturbances.”ATHENS — Less than a year after Greece emerged from a multibillion-euro international bailout, Athens is witnessing an investor boom. Hip new hotels with Acropolis views are dotting the skyline. Construction workers are tearing into dwellings owned by Greeks needing cash and converting them swiftly to short-term rentals, Airbnbs or fancy new homes for foreigners.Thousands of visa-seekers, a significant portion of them Chinese investors looking for bargain real estate, are coming to this capital city as well as the islands of Santorini and Corfu in search of homes that will give them a European base.Local homeowners, pressed by Greece’s lengthy financial crisis, are trying to take advantage of the investor bonanza, selling apartments or renting their homes to tourists in a frenzy that is quickly changing the housing market.The newcomers are chasing Greece’s so-called golden visas, which other crisis-hit countries like Portugal and Spain have used for years to lure investors in a bid to stoke an economic recovery. Spending a minimum of €250,000 on a home in Greece secures a five-year renewable visa.Greece is a latecomer to the global buying trend — in part because its debt crisis was so dire in 2011 — but it has become a hot destination for those with enough money. The government began offering golden visas in 2013, also drawing investors from Russia, Turkey and the Middle East.Yet the turnaround is coming at a cost. While rising property prices benefit homeowners, renters are being priced out. Families still struggling to recover from the crisis are being pushed from working-class neighborhoods as the wrecking companies move in.“It’s like what happened in Barcelona, where everyone was forced from the center,” said Maria Dolores, a young artist who lived there before moving to Athens four years ago. She and three roommates were evicted from a €400-a-month rental in Athens in November as the landlord weighed converting it to an Airbnb or selling to a foreigner.Carrie Law, the chief executive of Juwai.com, a Hong Kong-based real estate investment group, said the country that once was an economic basket case has become a top destination for China’s middle class because of the golden visa program. Chinese feel comfortable going to Greece because big Chinese state-owned companies, including Cosco, which owns most of Greece’s Piraeus port, have already invested, she said.Chinese clients often fly to Greece with suitcases filled with cash, the easiest way to get their money out of China, Ms. Law said. Although China caps individual withdrawals to $50,000 per year, a family of six, for example, can pool their cash, or make transfers through foreign branches of Chinese banks, to buy property, she said.Greece’s central bank has recently stepped up scrutiny of transactions after some Greek real estate companies were found allowing Chinese clients to buy properties with a credit card.Property prices in the country are recovering from a 40 percent plunge that began in 2010. Greece nearly crashed out of the eurozone in 2015, but stability has slowly returned, reviving confidence and tourism, which boomed with a record 33 million visitors last year.Big investors, including Thomas Cook and Wyndham Hotels, are pouring billions into the tourism sector, and dozens of hotel and resort projects are opening or underway, according to Enterprise Greece, the government agency promoting investment and trade. “We are seeing renewed investor confidence in Greece,” said Grigoris Stergioulis, the agency head.Private equity funds are also investing in Greek real estate investment trusts. And some are starting to buy mortgage- or property-backed securities sold by Greek banks that are looking to unload piles of troubled mortgage loans accumulated during the crisis.Greece’s reliance on a bailout of over €320 billion, or about $360 billion, from the International Monetary Fund ended in 2018, and real estate prices rose by nearly 2 percent, the first increase in nine years, according to the Bank of Greece. Building permits jumped more than 10 percent, reversing a seven-year slump.Real estate investment grew in 2018 by around 20 percent from a year earlier.Investors have tried to cash in partly by converting properties to lucrative short-term tourist rentals, which have quadrupled in five years, reducing the supply of affordable rental housing for average Greeks. A growing number of tourist rentals are listed on Airbnb, prompting the government to mull restrictions.Argiro Fouraci, 29, recently began renting five apartments that have been in her family for years. A teacher who lost her job during the crisis, she had struggled to get by until offering the apartments, in the popular Koukaki neighborhood near the Acropolis, as Airbnbs. She said she now clears about €400 per month on each apartment, after taxes and management fees.The earnings help her care for her parents, who are in their 60s and whose pensions were slashed. They, in turn, support her brother, who has opened a vaping store. “Most of my friends are still unemployed,” she said. “Now I can have a life and help my family.”Such business has lifted fortunes for Stavros Siempos, 53, the owner of Pantopolion, a grocery in Koukaki that sells feta cheese, olives and other traditional Greek products. The rise of Airbnb rentals has driven many Greeks from the neighborhood, he acknowledged. “We don’t have Greek neighbors anymore, we have Airbnb neighbors,” he said. But it is good for business, he added. “We’re better off now, because tourists have money.”As Airbnb makes inroads into the country’s real estate, Greece’s golden visa program has opened its housing market — and reshaped its pricing structure. A scan of property listings show many mid-sized apartments in Athens, Thessaloniki and on Greek islands are priced at exactly €250,000, the minimum needed for buyers to qualify for the visa program.The program has drawn about 10,000 investors from China, Russia and other non-European Union countries, channeling around €1.5 billion into Greek real estate in the last five years, according to Enterprise Greece. Chinese investors account for more than 40 percent of visa buyers.Developers say that Chinese investment companies have bought apartment buildings throughout Athens, including in low-cost immigrant neighborhoods and once-rough areas like Exarchia, a graffiti-filled district populated mostly by university students.Yannis Anastassiadis, chief executive of Anastassiadis Group, a real estate company that works with many Chinese investors, said companies typically renovate an apartment and then sell directly to clients seeking visas.Real estate agents arrange to meet groups of Chinese visitors at the Athens airport, drive them to view properties and wine and dine them. Lawyers work with the agents to help buyers acquire tax numbers and bank accounts. A buyer does not have to live in the property to qualify for a visa, so after the deal is done, Mr. Anastassiadis’s firm also manages the apartment as a rental.Lefteris Potamianos, president of the Athens-Attica Real Estate Association, said the visas have helped revive the market and, in turn, pushed up rental costs in some areas by as much as 30 percent.Activists have warned that, when combined with the proliferation of Airbnb, a housing crisis is threatening entire communities.Ms. Dolores, the artist who had to find a new home, said a foreign investor also bought a building that housed her employer, a nongovernmental organization. The group, AMOQA, conducts research and promotion of arts and studies on sexuality and gender. The building was also home to a martial arts school and a children’s activity center, she said.“Now, the investment company will turn the building into apartments,” Ms. Dolores said. “Aside from people and families, collective spaces and neighborhood networks are also getting displaced and vanishing from the map.”“It’s like a domino effect,” she said. “And the most vulnerable are losing out.”For nearly two decades, Donald J. Trump relied on Deutsche Bank to lend to him when other banks wouldn’t. Deutsche Bank, eager to expand in the United States, made a decision to repeatedly take a risk on him. Much has been written about their relationship, which is now under investigation on Capitol Hill and by the New York attorney general. Here are some of the new revelations from The New York Times’s investigation into Mr. Trump’s ties to Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank cut off Mr. Trump twice — and then kept lending to him.From the outset, Deutsche Bank executives recognized that Mr. Trump was a risky client — that’s why most other banks considered him off-limits. But the bank soon got an up-close view of its client’s problems.In 2003, Deutsche Bank helped Mr. Trump’s casino company sell hundreds of millions of dollars in bonds. (The salesmen were rewarded with a trip to Mar-a-Lago.) Mr. Trump’s company defaulted in 2004, leaving Deutsche Bank’s clients with deep losses. The bank’s investment division that sold the bonds vowed to not do business again with Mr. Trump.A year later, though, Mr. Trump approached another part of the investment division for a $640 million loan to build a skyscraper in Chicago. It made the loan — and in 2008, Mr. Trump defaulted and sued Deutsche Bank. That prompted the whole investment division to sever ties with Mr. Trump.And then, three years after his previous default, Deutsche Bank started lending to him again, this time through the private-banking division that catered to the superrich. In fact, it lent Mr. Trump money that he used to repay what he still owed Deutsche Bank’s investment division for the Chicago loan. Top bank executives supported the relationship.Since Mr. Trump won the 2016 election, Deutsche Bank officials have been trying to minimize the importance of their business with the new president, arguing that some senior executives didn’t even know the relationship existed.But two of Deutsche Bank’s chief executives — as well as numerous other senior executives — knew about and at times aided the relationship. In late 2011, as the bank debated whether to resume lending to Mr. Trump after his 2008 defaults, a senior executive asked Josef Ackermann, who was in his last months as chief executive, about the potential loans. Mr. Ackermann gave a thumbs up, according to people familiar with the process. (Mr. Ackermann said in an interview that he didn’t recall being involved.)His successor, Anshu Jain, was briefed on the Trump relationship early in his tenure. In February 2013, Mr. Jain accompanied Rosemary T. Vrablic — Mr. Trump’s personal banker at Deutsche Bank — to Trump Tower in Manhattan, according to two former executives. Over lunch, Mr. Jain remarked to Mr. Trump that he was surprised by his relatively low levels of debt. Ms. Vrablic told her colleagues that Mr. Jain had sounded upbeat about Mr. Trump’s finances.Deutsche Bank’s board found problems with its Trump lending. In 2016, the board of directors commissioned a report into how the bank had become so enmeshed with Mr. Trump. The report, prepared by the board’s integrity committee, concluded that Deutsche’s private-banking division, which catered to very rich individuals, was so determined to win business from big-name clients that its executives had looked past Mr. Trump’s history of stiffing his lenders and for engaging in demagogy, according to a person who read the report.The review also found that Deutsche Bank had produced a number of “exposure reports” that flagged the growing business with Mr. Trump, but that they had not been adequately reviewed by senior executives.Board members found that the Trump relationship was a symptom of a broader problem with the bank’s siloed management structure and a culture of getting deals done at all costs.Mr. Trump had some interesting bankers. Mr. Trump’s first point man at Deutsche Bank was Mike Offit, who arranged loans to renovate 40 Wall Street and to build a tower opposite the United Nations. He and Mr. Trump grew friendly, golfing and attending boxing matches together. Mr. Trump even wrote in a June 1998 letter to Mr. Offit’s father saying, “you have a great son!”In 1999, a senior Deutsche Bank executive discovered that a credit officer’s signature on a Trump loan document had been forged. Mr. Offit was never accused of forgery and the loan did not go through. He was later fired.Next, another banker, Justin Kennedy, stepped up to help lead the bank’s commercial real estate group. Mr. Kennedy was the son of Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, who occasionally visited Deutsche Bank’s offices. The younger Kennedy developed a relationship with Mr. Trump and helped him borrow money from Deutsche Bank, including on the fateful Chicago project. Finally, there was Ms. Vrablic. Deutsche Bank recruited her to its private-banking division in 2006. One of her existing clients was Jared Kushner, who later introduced her to his father-in-law, Mr. Trump, according to a person familiar with the relationship.Ms. Vrablic, an intensely private person who rarely discussed personal matters with her colleagues, steered more than $300 million in loans to Mr. Trump over the ensuing years. When he was sworn in as president, Ms. Vrablic sat in the V.I.P. section of the audience.She expects to be called to testify before Congress.Turkey has entered a recession, recording two consecutive quarters of falling economic growth, according to government figures released Monday, casting a blow for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan ahead of critical local elections at the end of the month.Mr. Erdogan has led Turkey through 18 years of continuous growth — making it a leading emerging market — but much of the growth of the last few years has come through unrestrained borrowing. The lira also plunged in value in mid-2018, amid global investor concerns and a sharp fall in consumer demand.The Turkish Statistical Institute announced that Turkey’s gross domestic product shrank by 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter of last year from the previous quarter, after seasonal adjustments. That fall followed a decline of 1.6 percent in the third quarter. A recession occurs, by some definitions, after two quarters of contraction.A global economic slowdown has reduced demand for Turkish exports and raised the cost of credit for its businesses. Growth in the European Union, Turkey’s most important market, has slowed to a crawl while Italy is in recession and Germany close to one.Economists had been warning of a recession for months as foreign investment in Turkey dried up over growing concerns about the rule of law as well as about its economic policies. Turkey’s growth was fueled in part by the availability of cheap foreign credit, but that credit flow has slowed, as in other emerging markets, after the Federal Reserve in the United States raised interest rates.The government has been subsidizing big infrastructure projects like bridges, subways and Istanbul’s new airport, planned as the world’s busiest. Many businesses have borrowed in foreign currencies, which means their debt burdens rose as the lira fell.By the end of the year, Turkish private-sector companies owed more than $250 billion in foreign debt, or nearly one-third the size of the country’s economy.For all of 2018, Turkey still achieved growth of 2.8 percent, but the economy took a precipitous turn midyear as the lira weakened. Investment agencies have revised Turkey’s credit ratings, and Turkey’s banks have almost stopped lending.Borrowing has become more expensive for Turkey and other emerging markets because investors have become wary of the risk, while rising interest rates and buoyant stocks have lured money back to the United States. Turkey has also been particularly hard hit by President Trump’s trade war. United States tariffs on Turkish steel imports are 50 percent, double the duties on steel from other countries.Bankruptcies, meanwhile, rose in the last months of 2018, and inflation has remained over 20 percent for months.Mr. Erdogan has ruled out turning to the International Monetary Fund for funds, emphasizing that he had taken Turkey out of an earlier program with the fund and paid off its debts. He has instead courted investment from Arab gulf countries and reduced some public spending.Since a failed coup d’état two years ago that attempted to topple him, Mr. Erdogan has assumed more power over government agencies, including economic policy. He was re-elected in June and has brought all branches of government under the presidency.He appointed his son-in-law, Berat Albyrak, as minister of finance and Treasury and through him has kept close control of the Central Bank. When Mr. Erdogan commented just before the election that he intended to be more involved with the bank, the lira sank to record lows.The Central Bank halted the rout by lifting rates, but its integrity was in question. The Turkish currency lost 28 percent of its value in 2018.The currency’s decline, as well as other factors, has hit Turks in their pocketbooks. Mr. Erdogan, who is personally leading his Justice and Development Party’s campaign for local elections, has opened subsidized markets stalls around the country to sell cheap vegetables to ease discontent.President Trump entered office berating Detroit automakers for closing plants and sending jobs abroad. With another election on the horizon, he has renewed the attack.Mr. Trump took to Twitter on Monday to demand that General Motors reopen a car plant in Ohio, a state that could play a pivotal role in his 2020 re-election campaign.The president also criticized the United Auto Workers union and touted investments in the United States by Toyota and other foreign car companies.G.M. said in November that it would idle its factory in Lordstown, Ohio, as part of broader cutbacks that would eliminate a total of 14,000 jobs, and it stopped production there two weeks ago.Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that he wanted the Ohio plant “opened or sold to a company who will open it up fast!” He also urged G.M. to close a factory in China or Mexico instead of idling the one in Lordstown.The president also called on the company and the U.A.W. to start talks to reopen Lordstown rather than waiting until the fall, when the two sides are scheduled to negotiate a new labor contract. G.M. and the union, however, have been in discussions since last year about Lordstown and other plants designated for closing.“Our focus is on our members who have been impacted, and we have and will continue to leave no stone unturned to keep the G.M. plants open,” the union said in a statement.In its November announcement, G.M. said it was also idling a car plant in Detroit, and plants in Warren, Mich., and Baltimore that make electric motors and transmissions. The action will eliminate 2,800 factory jobs. Thousands of white-collar jobs are also being cut as part of a cost-cutting drive.G.M. recently said it would keep the Detroit plant operating until January, seven months longer than originally planned.As for the 1,200 Lordstown workers, 450 have found new jobs at other G.M. plants, according to data released by G.M., and roughly 350 others were eligible for retirement. The company has 2,700 openings for hourly workers, most in the Midwest, a company spokesman said.The president’s messages were the latest in recent Twitter volleys promoting the state of the economy with a presidential election season nearing. G.M.’s plant closings undercut his claims that he is bringing manufacturing jobs to Ohio and other states.On Monday, Mr. Trump pointed out that Toyota was increasing its investment in United States operations. Last week, the Japanese automaker said it would invest $13 billion in the United States in a five-year period ending in 2021, up from its original estimate of $10 billion, and would add 600 jobs.A G.M. spokesman said his company had invested $1 billion in its domestic operations since the 2016 election, and $22 billion since 2009. Part of its investment has gone into developing electric and self-driving cars. It has 98,000 employees in the United States.The Lordstown plant was a victim of a rapid consumer shift as Americans abandoned small cars and sedans and flocked to sport utility vehicles and other larger vehicles. The Ohio plant made the Chevrolet Cruze, a compact whose sales fell by 23 percent in 2018. The plant was operating a single eight-hour shift a day. Auto plants typically have to run at least two shifts to make money.Other automakers have been hit by the shift away from cars. Ford said last year that it was dropping sedans from its lineup. Fiat Chrysler did so in 2016.Over the weekend, Mr. Trump had suggested that the Lordstown factory reopen “in a different form or with a new owner,” stressing that “time is of the essence!”Mr. Trump also wrote that he had spoken with Mary Barra, G.M.’s chief executive, and had pressed her to sell the plant or “do something else quickly.” He also lashed out at David Green, the president of U.A.W. Local 1112, saying Mr. Green “ought to get his act together and produce.”The carmaker responded to Mr. Trump’s comments with a statement saying that “the ultimate future of the unallocated plants will be resolved between G.M. and the U.A.W.” The union said in its own Twitter post Monday that “corporations close plants, workers don’t,” while urging the president not to “let G.M. off the hook.”Elected officials from Ohio were quick to defend the union.Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat who has criticized Mr. Trump’s inattention to the factory’s troubles in the past, chided the president on Sunday for “attacking workers.” Mr. Green and Lordstown union members “have shown grit and determination in the face of adversity,” Mr. Brown wrote on Twitter.Representative Tim Ryan, a Democrat who represents the area, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Trump’s message about Mr. Green was “counterproductive and insulting.” Mr. Green had tried to get in touch with Mr. Trump twice in hopes of getting his help, Mr. Ryan added, and had received no response.Six months into their budding relationship, Peter Travers sat beside Caroline Walradt on a sofa at her home in South Brunswick, N.J. “I have something to say to you,” Mr. Travers, a father of four who was going through a divorce, announced on that spring day in 2014.Ms. Walradt, a widow whose friendship with Mr. Travers seemed to be turning a romantic corner, was fixed on his every word.“Peter had turned toward me in a very serious manner,” she recalled. “So I’m sitting there and thinking to myself, ‘Oh wow, what could this be.’”When his intense stare gave way to a soft smile, Ms. Walradt began to wonder if Mr. Travers might be poised to use the “L word,” which had not yet come up in conversation.He soon delivered a pitch she was not expecting. “Do you ever think,” he whispered, “that you could come to love baseball?”Ms. Walradt, now 64, and Mr. Travers, 63, laughed as they recalled that wacky moment, one of many fond memories shared in what she described as “this miraculous second chance at love that both of us have been blessed with.”Their road to each other, a 17-year stretch paved with friendship, mutual respect and patience, began in July 2002, when Ms. Walradt’s family moved to West Windsor, N.J., from Hong Kong shortly after her husband, Ron Walradt, an international banker with Citibank, was transferred to Manhattan.The Walradts and their two young children, Jessica, then 14, and Trent, 11, soon became parishioners at All Saints’ Church in Princeton, N.J., where Mr. Travers was entrenched as a member of its vestry.“I remember when they first came to the church, they seemed like such a great family,” said Mr. Travers, the managing member of Chase Field, an investment firm in Princeton. (He was previously an investment banker at Goldman Sachs, and before that a lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell, both in New York.)“As a matter of fact I remember meeting Caroline’s husband,” Mr. Travers said. “He seemed like a real nice fellow.”Four months after arriving at their new address, the Walradts were still unpacking boxes when they received devastating news: Ron Walradt had cancer.“My husband apparently had cancer for a while,” Ms. Walradt said. “We just didn’t know it.”When he died in January 2003, their world went dark.“It was all very sudden, and very tough on the kids, who were extremely close to their dad,” Ms. Walradt said. “All three of us felt so alone, and we didn’t have any family around to lean on for support.”Ms. Walradt, now a second-grade teacher at Princeton Academy of the Sacred Heart, an all-boys school for students from kindergarten through eighth grade, began leaning heavily on her Episcopal faith, becoming more involved at All Saints’ Church.“When I heard that Caroline’s husband had passed away, I remember thinking, ‘Oh, what a terrible thing,’” Mr. Travers said. “I think our entire community felt the same way.”In June 2013, Mr. Travers first came to notice Ms. Walradt as something more than a longtime church acquaintance after a fund-raiser at a Princeton bar, where they chatted, albeit briefly.The following month, she made a huge impression on him at a thank-you dinner party he hosted for volunteers after a seven-day, five-state cycling fund-raiser. During that dinner, they spoke at length, learning a great deal about each other, including the fact that they were the children of career military men, and had traveled extensively around the globe with their now-deceased parents.“Peter seated me right next to him at the dinner table, and we spent a few hours getting to know each other a bit,” Ms. Walradt said. “I liked him right away, I thought he was sweet and smart and very handsome, and the way he was using playful language around me got me thinking that perhaps he had an interest in me, though I wasn’t sure.”Among the many places where Ms. Walradt and Mr. Travers lived was Tehran, and both were there during the same window of time in 1973, overlapping by a handful of days. Though they had many mutual friends, they had never met.Mr. Travers, who had gone to 14 different schools by the time he reached ninth grade, graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, and received a joint law degree and M.B.A. from Columbia. Ms. Walradt graduated from the University of Virginia and received an M.B.A. from the Thunderbird School of Global Management in Glendale, Ariz.Their commonality included a combined four cats. Sophie and Jasper, who belong to Ms. Walradt, and Red Cloud and Geronimo, who belong to Mr. Travers, would also eventually meet at their church during a blessing ceremony for the pets of parishioners.Since that dinner, Mr. Travers said, “the thought of possibly getting together with Caroline had been running around in the back of my mind. But I didn’t know if she had an interest in me, or if there was anyone else in her life, and to be honest, I was just coming out of a very terrible situation in terms of my marriage failing, and was really running around in a fog.”In October 2013, Ms. Walradt took the initiative to organize a relief project sponsored by All Saints’ Church to support an Episcopal parish in Toms River, N.J., after Hurricane Sandy had devastated that community.“Those people needed a break from all of their grief,” said Ms. Walradt, who had become head of the church’s outreach committee. “We brought them cooked meals and had games and prizes and even a jazz band for entertainment. We basically threw them a party.”Ms. Walradt had enlisted the help of Mr. Travers, who brought Champagne, wine and beer, and at Ms. Walradt’s request, a ham, and began carving it while dressed in a butcher’s apron wrapped around a suit and bow tie.He was later uncorking a bottle of wine when the Rev. Dr. Hugh E. Brown III, the All Saints’ rector, picked up a microphone and began thanking the people who had helped organize the event. In praising Ms. Walradt, he mentioned that she had been “widowed unexpectedly,” prompting a parishioner from Toms River to say to Mr. Travers. “You mean to tell me that woman is not married?”Mr. Travers said he spent the remainder of the evening in “observatory mode,” unable to slow down the thought of getting together with Ms. Walradt. “As I’m standing there watching Caroline bounce around, helping one person after another, it occurred to me what a really fine human being she was,” Mr. Travers said. “She was just a good-hearted, energetic person who genuinely cared about people, and I admired that.”The fog was beginning to lift, and three weeks later, on Halloween, Ms. Walradt and Mr. Travers went on their first official date, to see a play at Princeton’s McCarter Theater.“Here was this wonderful person that I had known for years,” said Mr. Travers, who had been separated from his wife for a year and a half before he began dating Ms. Walradt. “I was sort of remembering that there was a world out there, and I was trying to get my house in order and finish my divorce to basically be in the frame of mind to be able to pay attention to someone like Caroline.” (His divorce did not become official until earlier this year.)They began dating steadily and would soon enjoy many shared passions, including a love of travel, and have since visited Paris (twice), England and Switzerland. While Ms. Walradt has not become the kind of baseball fan that Mr. Travers had hoped for, she doesn’t mind taking in an occasional game. “Being together, that’s what makes watching baseball, or doing anything else, so much more enjoyable,” she said.They were married March 23 at All Saints’ before Reverend Brown, a choir and 230 guests, including Jonathan Ivey-Oladeji and Colby Hartpence, a pair of 8-year-olds who are students of Ms. Walradt’s at the Princeton Academy of the Sacred Heart.“She’s our favorite teacher, she’s awesome,” said Jonathan, as Colby nodded in agreement before adding, “she’s so nice because she lets us eat pizza.”The young boys particularly enjoyed the moment just before the bridal party’s entrance when the organist began playing “Take Me Out to the Ballgame,” a tip of the cap to Mr. Travers, a San Francisco Giants fan.Moments later, the boys’ eyes grew wider at the sight of the bride, in a white wedding dress by Romona Keveza, as she was escorted down the aisle, arm in arm, by her son, Trent Walradt.They made their way toward the groom to a trumpeter’s traditional tune, the “Prince of Denmark’s March,” which breathed a regal resonance into the tiny church, “where the miracle that is Caroline and Peter began,” said Reverend Brown, whose heartfelt ceremony from the “Book of Common Prayer” was spectacular in its simplicity.“Today we celebrate Caroline and Peter,” he said. “Their story is God’s story. It’s a story of new life and new hope, of a resurrection.”The couple sealed their exchange of vows and rings with a long kiss, drawing thunderous applause and putting huge smiles on the faces of the tuxedo-clad groomsmen, among them the groom’s two sons, Nicholas and Peter Travers, as well as his two daughters, Georgia and Mary Travers, who served as bridesmaids, and the bride’s daughter, Jessica Walradt, her maid of honor.“They help make each other better people,” Jessica Walradt said shortly after the bride and groom walked hand in hand out of the church and into a classic white 1961 Bentley. “My mom is just so happy, just so giddy with excitement. She deserves all of this happiness.”As the guests poured out of the church, many boarded shuttle buses provided by the couple that whisked them off to the reception, which was held at the groom’s spacious home in nearby Hopewell, N.J., where Champagne flowed and the groom greeted his guests, and treated his new bride, to his own rendition of Frank Sinatra’s, “The Way You Look Tonight.”“When Peter first met Caroline he was sort of feeling down and going through some tough times,” said Adam Hartmann, the groom’s half brother, who lives in Gainesville, Fla. “I love Peter, so to see the wonderful change in him since he and Caroline have been dating is like seeing the sun come out.”The bride, who moved to South Brunswick from West Windsor in 2010, will move into the groom’s home, along with Sophie and Jasper, upon their return from a honeymoon in Paris and Venice, Italy.“Living together will be a great experience,” the groom said. “I think it’s going to be an opportunity for us to do all sorts of adventurous things that we like to do, whether it’s travel or go to baseball games or get involved in good works.”That long stretch of road between them no more, the bride was eager to begin a new journey.“It will be nice to see Peter every night before he goes to sleep, and again in the morning when he awakes,” she said. “That may sound trite, but to me it’s both a comfort and a blessing, and a constant reminder that I’m now in the place where I’m supposed to be.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is expanding its efforts to block Chinese acquisitions in the United States, moving to force a Chinese firm that owns Grindr, the gay dating app, to relinquish control over concerns that Beijing could use personal information to blackmail or influence American officials, according to people familiar with the situation.The action, which is being driven by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, is unusual given that the panel typically investigates mergers that could result in control of an American business by a foreign individual or company, judging whether deals could threaten national security. This appears to be the first case in which the United States has asserted that foreign control of a social media app could have national security implications.The administration has not announced the move, which will require that Grindr be sold, or explained it. But officials familiar with the case, which was first reported by Reuters, say the concern focused on the potential for the blackmail of American officials or contractors, if China threatened to disclose their sexual orientation, or track their movements or dating habits.Three years ago, a Chinese firm that owns both gaming and credit services businesses, Beijing Kunlun Tech Co. Ltd., a public company listed on the Shenzhen stock exchange, bought a 60 percent stake in Grindr, which is based in West Hollywood, Calif., for $93 million. Early last year, it bought the remaining shares for a little over $150 million.While there were news reports about both transactions, the United States did not take action to block the acquisitions. Since then, the United States’ definition of national security threats has expanded, in part over concerns by the Trump administration and lawmakers about China’s ability to gain access to critical American technology.It is unclear why the panel, known as Cfius, acted now, more than three years after control of the company switched to Chinese hands. And so far, there is no public evidence that any information on the app has been used by the Chinese government.But Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he, along with several other senators, asked Cfius to conduct a review.“Last year, my office met with a top official from the Treasury Department to express my serious concerns about the national security risks associated with a Chinese company buying Grindr,” he said in a statement. While he said he could not “confirm specific actions by Cfius,” a highly secretive panel, “it is high time for the administration and Cfius to consider the national security impact of foreign companies acquiring large, sensitive troves of Americans’ private data.”Congress handed more power to the panel last year, allowing it to examine transactions that fell short of majority control of a company and involved just minority stakes. The expansion was an effort to counter Chinese minority investments in Silicon Valley companies that gave investors an early look at emerging technologies.The Kunlun purchases had never been submitted to Cfius, giving the government the leverage to go back in after the sale to try to force a divestment. Calls to Kunlun’s office number were not answered, and emails seeking comment were not returned.Grindr has already faced questions about its control and use of personal data. The company faced a huge backlash for sharing users’ H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal details with outside software vendors. After the data sharing was made public by European researchers in 2018, the company said it would stop sharing H.I.V. data with outside companies.Last year was the first time Cfius appeared to be concerned about the purchase of companies that contained sensitive data. The government killed a proposed merger last year between MoneyGram, the money transfer firm, and Ant Financial, a payments company related to the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba.The United States has also embarked on a global campaign to block a big Chinese telecom equipment giant, Huawei, from building the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, over concerns that it could divert critical data through China, or be forced to turn over data running through its networks to Beijing. The White House has essentially accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the administration’s efforts to control what kind of personal data is available to China’s intelligence services may have come too late. China’s ministry of state security and other Chinese groups have already been accused of successfully stealing personal data from American databases.The theft of 22 million security clearance files from the Office of Personnel Management in 2014, along with similar theft of data from the Anthem insurance networks and Marriott hotels, have all been attributed to Chinese actors by American intelligence officials, who say they were most likely operating on behalf of the government.The files stolen in the 2014 government breach contain far more personal data than the Chinese could probably find on any individual social media site: They include work history on sensitive United States projects, information about bankruptcies, medical conditions, relationship histories, and any contacts with foreigners. The loss of the information forced the C.I.A. to reassign personnel headed to China, and was considered among the largest losses of sensitive security information in decades. The Obama administration declined to publicly concede that the breach was committed by Chinese intelligence services.China has taken steps of its own to limit foreign companies’ access to its citizens’ personal information. A recently enacted cybersecurity law mandates that user data be stored in the country, where it can be kept under the government’s control. In response to the law, Apple said it would open its first data center in China, and formed a partnership with a Chinese company to run the center and handle data requests from the government.Before the law even came into effect, the Chinese government had pressured foreign technology companies to operate servers only within its borders — meaning the data is available to Chinese authorities under Chinese law. Amazon and Microsoft have partnered with Chinese firms to offer cloud computing services to Chinese customers.The United States has also pressed China to allow insurance companies and other American firms that control personal data to enter the Chinese market, a demand that goes back nearly two decades. China has agreed to do so, and that agreement is expected to be part of the larger trade deal being negotiated between American and Chinese negotiators.But the Grindr case could give the Chinese government an excuse to make its own national security claims if American firms sought to purchase a Chinese insurance company, or any of its social media firms.In 2005, Paula Volent, the head of the Bowdoin College endowment, wanted to move some of the college’s money into a Sequoia Capital venture fund focused on China.But Stanley F. Druckenmiller, a prominent hedge fund manager and influential member of the college’s investment committee, didn’t like the idea. “I was pretty aggressive at pushing back because I thought it was too risky,” he said. “I did not get the whole China thing.”Ms. Volent didn’t take no for an answer. “We pulled together a detailed memo” that persuaded the committee to approve her plan, she said.It turned out to be a profitable decision. Bowdoin invested $500,000, which had swelled to $3.75 million by June 30. “It has been a complete home run,” Mr. Druckenmiller happily conceded.That has hardly been Ms. Volent’s only smart move since 2000, when she began managing the Bowdoin endowment. In that time, the little liberal arts college in Brunswick, Me., has risen to the top of the heap in financial performance.Bowdoin posted an 8.8 percent average annual return over the 10 years that ended June 30, handily beating the 6 percent average for all college endowments with assets of more than $1 billion, according to a national study.The school also outperformed all eight Ivy League endowments, none of which managed to beat the 8.1 percent average annual performance of a plain vanilla portfolio consisting of stock and bond indexes, according to Markov Processes International, a research firm.What’s more, Ms. Volent, 62, achieved this feat as something of a pioneer in a male-dominated field. Only 16 percent of comparable college endowments are run by women, according to data from Charles Skorina, whose firm recruits chief investment officers.Her own path has been unique, but Ms. Volent said the field could be a great one for women. “I really hope young women will not shy away from careers in finance,” she said during an interview at her small office on the Bowdoin campus.Aside from its financial rewards, Ms. Volent said, managing a college endowment is a way of doing good. A rising endowment can give “students who could not otherwise afford to get an education the chance to get one,” she said. That has been the case at Bowdoin. In the 2018 fiscal year, the college said, the endowment provided roughly three-quarters of the school’s $41.6 million financial aid budget.Not Your Usual Paper AssetsMs. Volent found her way to asset management through a circuitous route. After receiving a degree in art history and chemistry from the University of New Hampshire, she took a job at the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in 1980 with the intention of making a career in art conservation. She later earned an advanced degree at New York University’s Institute of Fine Arts and worked at several other museums: the New-York Historical Society, the Palace of Fine Arts in San Francisco and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.While running her own paper conservation studio in Los Angeles, Ms. Volent began taking business courses at the University of California, Los Angeles, and realized that she had an aptitude for numbers.But she discovered her vocation in asset management at Yale, where she earned a master’s in business administration. She also worked at the university’s endowment under David F. Swensen, who has mentored many portfolio managers and developed a highly regarded strategy that includes investments in alternative asset classes like real estate, hedge funds and private equity. Mr. Swensen declined to comment for this article.Ms. Volent recalled her start with Mr. Swensen with a smile: “I think he hired me because he wanted to write a book and he thought I was a good writer,” she said. She helped him write the book — and he helped her learn a new trade.“I fell in love with finance and endowments,” Ms. Volent said. “No question was too silly. You could ask David anything.”In 2000, she returned to Bowdoin as the manager of the endowment, which then held only about $465 million in assets. By the end of the fiscal year last June 30, it had climbed to $1.63 billion.Clayton Rose, Bowdoin’s president, gave Ms. Volent and her staff of six much of the credit but, in a statement, also praised “the discipline and foresight of our Investment Committee.” It plays a supervisory role now, but when Ms. Volent arrived at the endowment it did a great deal of the hands-on work itself, with the assistance of Cambridge Associates, an investment firm.Ellen Shuman, a former Bowdoin trustee and Investment Committee member, said skilled, full-time portfolio managers like Ms. Volent tended to do better than committees.“Investment committees are poor stewards of capital,” said Ms. Shuman, a partner at Edgehill Endowment Partners, where she manages money for nonprofits. “They each want people they know as managers. They are not there watching the managers day to day and monitoring the portfolio.”Learning From Two GiantsMr. Druckenmiller, the chairman of the Investment Committee, has been an enduring influence on Ms. Volent, who said she had incorporated lessons from him, as well as from Mr. Swensen, in formulating her approach.Unlike Mr. Swensen, for example, Mr. Druckenmiller is a practitioner of short-term trading based on macroeconomic trends. He has a formidable reputation, both in his own right and as the manager of George Soros’s Quantum Fund. He managed that fund when Mr. Soros made a fortune by betting against the British pound.“I think that the long view that was drilled into me at Yale complements Stan’s shorter-term market values,” Ms. Volent said. “From each of them, I learned critical thinking.”Like Mr. Druckenmiller, Ms. Volent favors hedge funds that make macroeconomic bets — investments in equities, currencies and other instruments based on a manager’s views of global economic and political trends. For the most part, Mr. Swensen has avoided such funds, she said.“David believes that no one can anticipate changes in currencies and interest rates,” Ms. Volent said.With their high fees and requirement that investors keep their money “locked up” for long periods, hedge funds lately have been “getting bad press,” Ms. Volent said. “But Bowdoin’s best performance has come in periods where protection of capital is key and hedge funds have been additive here.”Still, the illiquidity of such funds has sometimes been a problem, she said. In the 2008 market meltdown, for example, Bowdoin was unable to withdraw its money from a declining fund, which Ms. Volent declined to identify.“We were ring fenced,” she recalled. On balance, however, she finds such funds useful, she said.As the endowment’s assets have grown, so has Ms. Volent’s compensation. In 2016, the most recent year for which information is available, she earned $2.78 million, according to Bowdoin’s government filings. That’s high for the amount of money she manages, Mr. Skorina said, but the endowment’s performance has been exceptional.Mr. Druckenmiller said Ms. Volent’s background in art might have made her more creative than most financial managers.“It can’t be overemphasized,” he said. “She does not have a cookie-cutter financial background.”He added that she liked to develop younger managers and stick with them.“She will work with managers that others might think are too young or inexperienced,” Mr. Druckenmiller said. “But if you are willing to invest with a manager earlier in their cycle, then you could have 15 or 20 years of outperformance. Last year, we had a 29-year-old manager who was up 35 percent.”Ms. Volent said her work in art restoration had taught her the need for concentrated study before plunging into action.“Art conservation and investment management are similar,” she said. “You do a lot of preliminary work. You don’t want to drop an artwork in a solution and it disappears. The same is true in investments.”They Know Bowdoin NowWhile Bowdoin’s strong returns have gotten attention lately, it wasn’t always easy to persuade outside fund managers to work with the endowment. In contrast to Yale, Ms. Volent said, “no one even knew what Bowdoin was.”But she has been relentless, Mr. Druckenmiller said, during a 7 a.m. interview in his Manhattan office.“Paula can be dogged when she thinks an investment will work for Bowdoin,” he said. When outside funds have been closed to the school, he said, “she will cultivate them for years.”“Sometimes I think they take us just to get her off their backs,” he added.In assessing fund managers, Ms. Volent said, she looks for more than a strong performance record. “The numbers are important in illustrating patterns,” she said, “but they are only useful if they are used with qualitative good judgment.”For example, Ms. Volent recalled a meeting with a manager who had impressed her until he said he had to leave because his private jet was waiting. That sense of entitlement was a turnoff, she said.“We like to invest with managers who are small and hungry to establish themselves,” she said. “The jet suggested that he had already gathered a lot of personal assets and was not as focused on his portfolio.”Some of Bowdoin’s investments have been managed by funds in which trustees and investment committee members have an interest. In 2018, 8.2 percent of Bowdoin’s total holdings were in such “related party” funds, the college’s government filings show.More than half of the 809 schools surveyed by the National Association of College and University Business Officers permit such arrangements. Many require “recusal and disclosure” to safeguard against conflicts of interest. Such issues have been raised at several schools, including the University of Michigan and Dartmouth College. Ms. Volent said Bowdoin required the disclosure of potential conflicts.One of her greatest challenges is finding promising areas for investment. She has been pursuing contrarian ideas in recent months, considering investments in Britain, which has been in turmoil over Brexit — the country’s pending exit from the European Union. “When there is so much volatility, investors may have to get rid of stuff,” Ms. Volent said.That may be difficult for Britain, but for a small college in Maine, it might lead to good things. “There may be opportunities for Bowdoin,” she said.In late October 2017, Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and Middle East adviser, dropped into Saudi Arabia for an unannounced visit to the desert retreat of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who was in the process of consolidating his power. The two men talked privately late into the night.Just a day earlier, Mr. Kushner’s younger brother, Josh, then 32, was flying out of the kingdom.Jared came to talk policy, but Josh was there on business.The founder of an eight-year-old venture capital firm, Josh Kushner had spent the three days before his brother’s arrival at an investor conference, where Prince Mohammed had promised to spend billions of dollars on a high-tech future for Saudi Arabia.As others sat through speeches in a gilded conference hall, several participants said, the younger Mr. Kushner frequently ducked out for more exclusive conversations with Saudi officials.Some government ethics lawyers say those conversations — never hidden, but not previously reported — create the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. Although Jared Kushner severed his ties with his brother’s company and divested his interest in his brother’s funds around the time he entered the White House, he was nonetheless discussing American policy with the rulers of the kingdom at virtually the same time that his brother was talking business with their top aides.A spokesman for Josh Kushner’s firm, Thrive Capital, said that it was not in a formal fund-raising period at the time of the conference. A year later, however, the company raised $1 billion. And two people who spoke with Josh Kushner at the conference said he had been actively promoting a health insurance start-up he founded in 2012, Oscar Health, which five months later announced a fresh $165 million round of financing.A spokesman for Josh Kushner said the management of Oscar Health knew of no direct investment by Saudis. But the spokesman, Jesse Derris, declined to disclose whether Saudis had invested in any Thrive funds. Mr. Derris said only that Thrive had received no money since the presidential election from any Saudi who had not previously invested in its funds.“Out of an abundance of caution, Thrive instituted a policy shortly after the 2016 election to prohibit investments from new foreign investors with business in front of the current administration,” Mr. Derris said in a statement. “It has abided by that prohibition.”But he declined to answer whether Thrive has continued to receive money from Saudis who began investing before November 2016.Jared Kushner appears to have been closely involved in Josh’s venture capital firm, having sat on the board and investment committees of Thrive Capital until January 2017, his financial disclosure forms show.He also received at least $8.2 million in capital gains from various Thrive funds while working in the White House, according to a financial disclosure form filed in May 2018.Whether Jared Kushner was aware of his brother’s visit to Riyadh or of any Saudi investment in his brother’s funds could not be determined. Spokesmen for the White House and for Jared Kushner’s lawyers declined to address those questions publicly.Jan Baran, a Republican lawyer specializing in government ethics, said an investment in a fund run by Thrive Capital did not appear to pose legal problems for Jared Kushner, unless his role in the White House gave him oversight over matters related to the Saudi investment.But Kathleen Clark, an expert on government ethics and a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis, said Saudi discussions with Josh Kushner raised issues for his brother.“The timing looks bad, O.K., but the bigger issue is his brother’s business,” she said. “It is reasonable to question Jared Kushner’s ability to be impartial in dealing with the Saudis.”At the time of the conference, Prince Mohammed was basking in favorable attention from many in the West for having taken preliminary steps to open up the kingdom’s economy and relax its social codes. The New York Times was one of several media companies that co-sponsored the 2017 investment conference. Several Times journalists attended, and one spoke briefly with Josh Kushner.But the bond between Jared Kushner, 38, and Prince Mohammed, 33, has drawn more scrutiny as the crown prince has displayed more aggression.A week after the Kushners left the Saudi capital, Riyadh, Prince Mohammed ordered the extrajudicial detention of about 200 businessmen and former officials in a Ritz-Carlton hotel, some of whom were evidently tortured. He was also behind the bizarre kidnapping of Lebanon’s prime minister. And months later, he directed the arrests and, according to relatives, torture of prominent women’s rights advocates.Then, last October, his agents killed and dismembered the Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi inside a consulate in Istanbul — on the orders of Prince Mohammed, American intelligence agencies concluded.The crown prince has led a four-year military intervention in Yemen that has brought on a humanitarian catastrophe with no end in sight. At the same time, he has sown division among American allies in the region by trying to isolate Qatar over policy disagreements.Jared Kushner, though, has steadfastly supported the prince.From the start of the administration, Mr. Kushner has argued persistently that Prince Mohammed can become a vital ally, especially in bringing the Palestinians into agreement with a promised American peace plan. He pushed past the objections of cabinet members and senior officials to persuade Mr. Trump to visit Saudi Arabia on his first trip abroad as president.And even after a bipartisan backlash over the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, Mr. Kushner argued successfully that Mr. Trump should stand by the prince. Last month, the White House defied a congressional deadline for a report from Mr. Trump about who directed the killing, sidestepping pressure to acknowledge the intelligence findings about Prince Mohammed’s role.Professor Clark said that ethics laws could require Jared Kushner to recuse himself from White House deliberations about the response to those congressional demands or other specific proceedings involving the Saudis.Not long after the congressional deadline expired, Jared Kushner flew to Riyadh for his first face-to-face meeting with Prince Mohammed since Mr. Khashoggi’s death.Critics of Mr. Trump have often argued that a tacit financial interest hovers over his administration’s dealings with the oil-rich rulers of the Persian Gulf, if only because they are major investors in American real estate. Both Mr. Trump and Jared Kushner are expected to go back into the business of selling real estate investments when they leave the White House.Josh Kushner, however, has largely escaped the scrutiny that has fallen on the Trump administration, in part because he kept his distance. He stepped away from the family business to found his venture capital firm, and he is a Democrat who has said he voted against Mr. Trump despite the family connection.Supporters of Josh Kushner note that his young firm has scored early wins — like a timely investment in the photo-sharing app Instagram — and that he was regularly invited to major tech investment conferences before 2016.But the Riyadh conference drew Wall Street titans, and some attendees questioned how a relatively small player enjoyed high-level access to Saudi officials. On a list of the top 100 venture capitalists compiled by the trade publication CB Insights in collaboration with The New York Times, Josh Kushner appeared for the first time in 2018, entering at 99.One of those he met, during an opening night party for V.I.P. guests, was Yasir Al-Rumayyan, an aide to the crown prince and the managing director of the kingdom’s vast Public Investment Fund. Another was Mr. Al-Rumayyan’s son Faisal, a student at New York University, and two of his associates said that after returning from Riyadh, they socialized together. (A person close to Josh Kushner said the two met face to face only once after the conference.)LONDON — Saudi Arabia’s oil company, Saudi Aramco, said on Wednesday that it would buy a 70 percent stake in a state-controlled petrochemical giant for $69.1 billion, in what appears to be an alternative to a much-delayed initial public offering.The deal, which involves three entities controlled by the Saudi government, largely accomplishes the primary goal for Aramco’s share offering — helping to finance an ambitious campaign to modernize the kingdom.Aramco will buy the stake in the petrochemical company, the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, known as Sabic, currently held by the country’s sovereign wealth fund. The remaining 30 percent of Sabic will continue to be listed on Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul stock exchange.The transaction would give Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who had been the main proponent of selling a portion of Aramco to public investors, a chunk of the cash he needs to diversify the Saudi economy, which is heavily dependent on oil. The prince hopes both to buffer the economy from oil price fluctuations and invest in industries that will provide income for the kingdom if demand for its oil wanes.In addition, Aramco’s acquisition of a controlling stake in Sabic is expected to attract less public scrutiny than a stock offering.The deal “gives the crown prince what he wanted,” said F. Gregory Gause III, professor of international affairs at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. “It is certainly more convenient than having to raise cash through an I.P.O. that would have required opening up all of the books of Aramco.”The stake that Aramco is buying is held by the Public Investment Fund, which Prince Mohammed has designated as a vehicle for carrying out his modernization plans. The transaction will convert the fund’s holding into cash, allowing it to make other investments.The share sale “will unlock significant capital” for the fund’s investment strategy for contributing to “sectoral and revenue diversification of Saudi Arabia” the fund’s managing director, Yasir Al-Rumayyan, said in a statement.How Aramco will finance what it called “a private transaction” is not clear, though the company would most likely borrow billions of dollars. This deal could wind up being at least a kind of consolation prize for JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and other investment banks that had been advising Aramco on its public offering. These institutions had shifted to working on the Sabic transaction once the I.P.O. was delayed.The bonds Aramco sells to buy the Sabic stake are expected to generate a gusher of fees for the banks. The deal would also require some disclosure of Aramco’s operations.Additionally, the banks would remain in Saudi Arabia’s good graces in case the government takes Aramco public in a few years.Analysts say that buying a giant petrochemical company like Sabic also fits with Aramco’s own plans to diversify. The company has been pumping money into petrochemicals, betting that demand for plastics will grow faster than for fuels like gasoline in a world increasingly concerned about climate change.“This is Saudi Aramco’s climate hedge,” said Jim Krane, author of “Energy Kingdoms,” a book on the Persian Gulf. While some countries have shrugged off warnings about being overly reliant on the oil industry, he said, climate change is making “petro-states get serious about diversifying their economies.”ROME — President Xi Jinping of China arrived on Friday at Rome’s presidential palace with a cavalry escort usually reserved for royals. For a three-day visit, Italy pulled out all the stops for an economic superpower promising billions in investment and trade deals in exchange for officially signing on to China’s vast new Silk Road.But even as Mr. Xi and his wife were serenaded at a state dinner by Andrea Bocelli, the leaders of France, Germany and the European Union huddled in Brussels hoping to strengthen the Continent’s defenses against what they considered to be China’s economic incursion.The disconnect between the two scenes laid bare the divisions and tensions in Europe, caught in the middle of a trade war between the United States and China, while trying to find its bearings and assert its power in a volatile era of shifting geopolitical alliances and American retrenchment.“China plays on our divisions,” President Emmanuel Macron of France, speaking in Brussels, told reporters on Friday, adding that the European Union had finally woken up to China. “The period of European naïveté is over.”But stalling China’s success in dividing European allies will be easier said than done. Italy may be just the latest economic partner for China in Europe, but it is a significant one. It is the first member of the Group of 7 nations that once dominated the global economy to take part in China’s vast Belt and Road infrastructure project, a sign of how a rising China is reshaping the world’s economic and political order.Even as Europe now struggles to forge a common policy toward China’s economic advance, Beijing has managed to hive off deal after deal in Europe. France and Germany, which are now leading the call for greater ‘‘reciprocity’’ in economic relations with China, already have some of the largest stakes in continuing to lure Chinese trade and investment.Their wary eye on Chinese investments is not necessarily new, but it is intensifying.“What is newer and perhaps unprecedented is China’s growing influence in European countries, such as Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Macedonia, Montenegro, Poland, Portugal, and Serbia, to name just a few,” said Philippe Le Corre of the Harvard Kennedy School.There is growing concern, in fact, that China has arrived in Europe not as an economic collaborator, but as a conqueror. The European Commission called China an ‘‘economic competitor’’ in critical industrial fields and a “systemic rival” politically in a tough paper issued last week.The European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker repeated that refrain on Friday, saying ‘‘the Chinese market is not sufficiently open to European companies, and we must change this.”While that language aligned more closely with the view of the Trump administration, European allies and Washington remain relatively estranged. The Europeans lament that the United States has not done enough to offset what China has to offer.The Trump administration, according to Italian officials, failed to argue against the Chinese deal with Italy until the very late stages.Mr. Juncker noted that Europe did not want to be caught having to choose between the United States and China. But that has become increasingly difficult, as it has also become more difficult for European allies to coordinate policies with a Trump administration that has wielded sticks — like the threat of sanctions against German automakers — where Mr. Xi offers carrots.Still, to emphasize the European unity, Mr. Macron invited Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Mr. Juncker, the European Commission’s president, to join him on Sunday when Mr. Xi meets him during the French leg of his European tour.In Brussels, European leaders discussed their commitment to increased “screening” of foreign, and especially Chinese, investments. (Italy abstained from a recent vote to bolster that screening.)They have pointed to China’s failure to open its markets and its public procurement, its national subsidies to create big corporations, its push for dominance in key new technologies like 5G and artificial intelligence, and its aggressiveness in the South China Sea.“There is a broader rethink of E.U. policy toward China to protect industrial interests, the E.U. and member states against Chinese influence in many fields,” from investment to security risks like the Chinese electronics giant Huawei, said Daniela Schwarzer, the director of the German Council on Foreign Relations.European leaders were correct to demand more reciprocity with Beijing, Mr. Le Corre of the Harvard Kennedy School said, so that their new Silk Road won’t be a “one-way road.”Italy’s president, Sergio Mattarella, had a similar message as he stood next to Mr. Xi in the Quirinal Palace on Friday morning.“The ancient Silk Road was a tool of knowledge among people and to share mutual discoveries,” Mr. Mattarella said. “The new one must also be a two-way street.”But so far, no matter which way the road goes, it is Beijing that is doing most of the driving. On Saturday, Mr. Xi and Italy’s prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, will sign a memorandum of understanding in which Italy will officially join the Belt and Road project.Next month, Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China will meet with all the nations of the European Union in an annual summit. He will also meet separately in Croatia with 16 European nations, several of them members of the European Union, with which Beijing has already signed deals to join the Belt and Road initiative.On Friday, Mr. Xi thanked Italy for its “deep friendship” and spoke about the importance of “revitalizing the ancient Silk Road,” strengthening ties and developing a “series of concrete projects” together. He assured the Italians, who are desperate to open Chinese markets to Italian goods, that he wanted a “commercial exchange that goes both ways and a flow of investments that goes both ways.”The tightening relationship between China and Italy has worried American officials, who have tried and failed to stop the deal, expressing concern that China’s economic expansion is a precursor to military and political ambitions.When it became clear that Italy would nevertheless sign the deal, the American ambassador in Italy and other officials instead tried to convince Italy not to use 5G wireless networks developed by Huawei, which Washington warns could be used by Beijing to spy on communications networks.Leaders of the European Union in Brussels have also raised fears that Italy — saddled by debt, and tempted by promises of hundreds of millions of euros in infrastructure investment — could fall prey to a Chinese divide-and-conquer strategy. And critics of the Italian government have called the deal yet another example of its dangerous naïveté and incompetence.Italian leaders have argued that there is nothing to be concerned about. Italy, they say, will avoid China’s debt traps, and its laws prevent foreigners from taking control of its ports, as China has done in Piraeus, Greece.But critics of the government do not find these guarantees reassuring.A full-page cartoon on the front page of Thursday’s Il Foglio, a newspaper critical of the government, showed Mr. Conte, the prime minister, leading an enormous, fire-breathing Chinese dragon with a short leash.In the cartoon, Mr. Conte says, “Take it easy guys, I can manage him. He practically eats from my hand.”Mr. Conte has defended the deal, saying Germany and France have considerably more business with China and that it was a way to inject Italian goods into a huge Asian market“We want to first and foremost rebalance our trade, which is not favorable to us now. Our exports to China are far lower than other European countries’,” Mr. Conte told Italy’s Parliament before the visit. “We will have new airports, new trade corridors, and it will certainly influence our economic growth. We don’t want to lose any opportunity.”PARIS — France rolled out red carpets and honor guards for President Xi Jinping of China on Monday, but beneath the pomp, there were wary statements about China’s influence by his host, President Emmanuel Macron.With Italy last week breaking from Europe in signing on to China’s global infrastructure project for moving Chinese goods, Mr. Macron has made it clear that a unified European response, in his view, is critical in dealing with the Chinese hegemon.He reiterated that sentiment Monday as Mr. Xi listened in a deal-signing ceremony at the presidential Élysée Palace, where more than a dozen commercial and governmental treaties were signed worth billions of euros.Earlier Mr. Macron welcomed Mr. Xi at a symbol of French imperial history and power, the Arc de Triomphe.Beneath the tight smiles and brisk handshakes, Mr. Macron’s sharpened words resonated as the template for France’s attitude toward China, a country that floods France with luxury-shopping tourists but competes directly with it in a principal arena of mutual geopolitical interest, Africa.Mr. Macron, keenly aware of France’s small position in the Chinese market — between 1 and 2 percent of imports — talks about Europe when he talks about China. Germany’s position is nearly five times as large.After saying last week that the era of European “naïveté was over,” and that China had “played on our divisions,” he emphasized to the Chinese leader Monday that in talking to France, he was talking to Europe.It was not immediately clear how France had avoided the “naïveté” Mr. Macron criticized, nor how it had reinforced the multilateral unified European approach he promulgated, in signing the French deals with the Chinese on Monday.Still, unlike Italy, France has not signed on to China’s global goods-moving project, which it calls “One Belt One Road.”Making reference to Gen. Charles de Gaulle’s famous declaration in 1964 that recognizing China was a matter of “reason” and “evidence,” Mr. Macron said Monday at the Élysée that those same words applied to the “choice” of the 21st century: the “relationship between Europeans and Chinese.”De Gaulle was bucking the United States when he uttered those words, and Mr. Macron, 55 years later, was doing something of the same.Appealing to China as a partner, he made a pointed reference to the United States under President Trump, who has repudiated multinational agreements like the Paris Climate accord and Iran nuclear deal.“The order of things has been shaken,” the French president said, and “faced with the risk of the destruction of the multilateral order, France and China have a responsibility,” as permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.“No country can redefine the rules of the international game,” Mr. Macron asserted, saying that France, like China, would stick to an agreement with Iran, and saying the two countries had made progress on the subject of climate change, and on the lifting of import restrictions for French beef and poultry.Earlier French and Chinese officials and executives signed agreements on aeronautics — the Chinese are buying 300 airplanes from Airbus — and on space, banking and investment, shipbuilding and cultural exchanges.On human rights violations in China, a subject that preoccupies French media but not official discourse or French business, Mr. Macron made only a hurried reference. Mr. Xi is visiting at a time when Galeries Lafayette, the emblematic French department store, is projecting a rapid expansion in China, which represents a third of the world market for luxury goods.Jet-lagged Chinese tourists are bussed directly from the airport to the Galeries Lafayette store in central Paris, and the Rue Saint Honoré, a thoroughfare studded with luxury shops, routinely decks itself out for Chinese New Year.The Chinese have invested in a wide scattering of French sectors, including wine, hotels, and industrial food production, including milk. France was the recipient of 9 percent of Chinese investments in the European Union in 2018; the Chinese have bought more than 150 wineries in Bordeaux, and China is the top export market for Bordeaux wine. The Chinese push into that culturally symbolic sector has created some backlash, but not enough to stop French owners from selling their properties.With Mr. Xi silently listening Monday Mr. Macron said that Europe had never considered individual rights as “culturally specific,” and that its preoccupation remained for “the respect of fundamental and individual rights.” He said that the two had “had frank exchanges” on the subject.But French analysts of relations with China said Monday that commercial relations were the real subject of preoccupation. “It’s the question of reciprocity,” said Jean-Philippe Béja of Sciences-Po, the research university. “We’ve been open towards trade and investment, and the Chinese have never let us enter their state procurements process.”Europeans, he suggested, had also become more aware, and wary, of technology transfers and investments that “help the Chinese government develop its potential, and in the case of artificial intelligence it’s about control, and exporting control,” said Mr. Béja, referring to advances in Chinese government surveillance of its own citizenry.“We’re more fearful than the other” members of the European Union about Chinese power and hegemony, said François Godement, an expert at the Institut Montaigne research center in Paris. “China is pushing its own pawns,” he said, particularly in parts of Africa where for decades French dominance has been undisputed.Mr. Macron insisted Monday that France and China were “not strategic rivals” in Africa, though he said the two nations could be “much more important partners,” appearing to reflect a worry about Chinese investment on the continent.Joshua Kushner, the venture capitalist whose older brother is President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, became a minority shareholder of the N.B.A.’s Memphis Grizzlies earlier this season, according to four people familiar with the matter.Jesse Derris, a spokesman for Joshua Kushner, confirmed the purchase, as did a spokesman for the N.B.A.“Brandon Arrindell and Joshua Kushner recently, in their respective individual capacities, purchased minority stakes in the Grizzlies,” said a team spokesman in a statement.Kushner, 33, agreed with Grizzlies owner Robert Pera to purchase a share of the team as a limited partner in late 2018, according to two of the people, who weren’t authorized to discuss the partnership publicly. The transaction closed at the end of February.Neither Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, nor his father, Charles, who spent 14 months in prison for illegal campaign donations, tax evasion and witness tampering, is involved in the Grizzlies, according to the people. However, Joshua Kushner’s wealth can be traced to his family’s real estate fortune, which funded other investments he has made. Members of the Kushner family have previously lodged unsuccessful bids to buy the Miami Marlins, Los Angeles Dodgers and the Nets when the team was in New Jersey.According to The Daily Memphian, which first reported the agreement, Brandon Arrindell, a principal at a Memphis investment management firm, also purchased a stake in the team.The Kushner investment comes at a time when the relationship between top N.B.A. players and the White House is increasingly tense. No N.B.A. team has visited the White House since Trump became president. The N.B.A. superstars LeBron James and Stephen Curry have engaged in public spats with Trump; James has referred to him as “a bum.”Joshua Kushner’s politics are very different from his brother’s. Joshua Kushner is a lifelong Democrat and said he did not vote for Trump in 2016. He participated in both the first Women’s March and the March for Our Lives protests.The Kushners, especially Jared, have close ties to N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver. Silver attends sporting events with Jared Kushner, he told The New Yorker, and Kushner advised the N.B.A. on a real estate search. Kushner, who owned The New York Observer before selling it to his family’s trust, also once ordered the deletion of a benign article about Silver purchasing a new apartment, according to BuzzFeed.Joshua Kushner is a mainstay of the New York tech scene, founding the investment firm Thrive Capital, which has $2.5 billion under management, and cofounding Oscar Health, a health start-up. He was brought into the Grizzlies ownership group by Pera, who is also part of the New York tech scene. The deal stemmed from an unusual arrangement Pera had with previous limited partners of the Grizzlies.Pera agreed to purchase the Memphis Grizzlies from Michael Heisley in June 2012 for $377 million. Pera was 34, and made his wealth as the founder of Ubiquiti Networks, a New York-based wireless technology company. He founded Ubiquiti in 2005, and took it public in 2011.But Pera, despite holding a controlling interest in the Grizzlies, purchased only about 25 percent of the franchise and put up just $45 million of his own money, according to The Memphis Flyer. Pera put together a large ownership group to pay for the rest. Steve Kaplan, a Los Angeles investor, and Daniel Straus, the founder of multiple health care companies, each bought a stake worth roughly 14 percent, while a consortium of more than 20 local investors bought the rest.The agreement between Pera, Kaplan and Straus included an unusual buy-sell clause that allowed both Kaplan and Straus to exercise a right to purchase control of the team after five years. Once exercised, one or both of the limited partners could set a new valuation for the franchise. At that price, Pera had to either buy their shares or sell them his.In November 2017, both Kaplan and Straus triggered the clause. After negotiations between the three were unsuccessful, Pera announced in April 2018 that he would retain his majority ownership. ESPN reported he had bought his former partners out at a $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion valuation of the franchise.That meant Pera was forced to raise roughly $375 million — about the same amount the entire team was valued at in 2012 — to purchase the Straus and Kaplan shares. It seems he brought on minority investors to help shoulder that financial commitment.The Grizzlies have slumped to a record of 29-42 after a promising start and will miss the N.B.A. playoffs for the second consecutive season. In February, Memphis traded its former All-Star center Marc Gasol to Toronto and is widely expected to trade the last remaining link to the club’s playoff successes — Mike Conley — in the off-season.BEIJING — Top Chinese economic policymakers promised this weekend that Beijing was ready to open up the country’s economy to more market-based competition and international trade, in the latest sign of strong Chinese interest in ending a multibillion-dollar trade war with the United States.Senior American officials are scheduled to come to Beijing in the coming days for trade talks, with Chinese officials then headed to Washington the following week in an attempt to wrap up a deal.But Chinese officials have an extra incentive in pledging to loosen their hold over the world’s No. 2 economy, and not just to the Trump administration. In addition to a trade war that is hitting the country’s exporters, China’s economy has also been hurt by private sector business leaders who have become increasingly cautious in recent months about making new investments.The economy has slowed, creating a self-reinforcing cycle of skepticism that further private investments will be profitable. State-owned enterprises have claimed a growing share of the loans available in the economy, a sign that the government may be crowding out the private businesses that could drive future growth. Xi Jinping, the country’s leader, has insisted that the Communist Party play an ever-greater role in corporate decision making and daily life.The promises of economic opening may sound familiar. Chinese officials have said for years that they were ready to allow foreign competitors to enter their market on a more equal footing, with slow progress. The promises made over the weekend in many cases repeated pledges that have been made before, such as to open the country’s financial sector more widely to foreign investment.The tone of remarks at this weekend’s session of the China Development Forum, the country’s premier annual economic policy conference, was nonetheless striking. It appeared to represent a coordinated effort to present an international image of China as a country moving in the direction of greater economic openness.Han Zheng, one of the seven men who run the country as members of the Communist Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, said that China wanted to keep increasing imports. “We do not strive for a trade surplus,” he said.Yi Gang, the governor of the central bank, said that China wanted more foreign investment. He said the government was looking for ways to let foreign investors trade derivatives and other financial instruments so as to limit their exposure to risk. Such a move could mean loosening Beijing’s controls over the value of its currency — a politically sensitive subject, and one in which Beijing has a mixed record — and Mr. Yi offered no details.Mr. Han, Mr. Yi and other senior officials took turns extolling a new foreign investment law approved by China’s legislature on March 15, describing it as a carefully thought-out framework for making the country a more appealing place to invest.“China never pays lip service,” said Han Wenxiu, the executive deputy director of the powerful, policy-setting General Office of the Central Financial and Economic Affairs Commission. “We will honor our words and act on them.”Foreign lawyers have described the law as vague, noting that a third of the provisions are no longer than one sentence each and that domestic companies are still covered by separate legislation.Chinese officials also emphasized their willingness to allow foreign banks, securities firms, insurers and asset management companies to buy larger stakes in their Chinese competitors.“We can open it up more,” Fang Xinghai, a vice chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said at the forum. “You can compete.”China has made similar offers ever since President Trump visited Beijing in November 2017, as part of an effort by Beijing to woo support from Wall Street during the trade war.President Trump’s remark on Friday that the United States would keep its 25 percent tariff imposed last summer on $50 billion a year of Chinese goods drew irritation at the forum. For the United States to insist on keeping tariffs could “ruin the whole base of this negotiation,” said Zhu Min, an influential adviser on economic policy issues in Beijing and a former senior central banker in Beijing and former deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund in Washington.The Trump administration had consistently taken a hard line for many months on retaining the tariffs on the $50 billion a year in goods. The administration has been much more willing to discuss removing a 10 percent tariff imposed last autumn on another $200 billion a year in goods.But corporate lobbyists in Washington have mounted a strenuous campaign for the repeal of all tariffs, including on the $50 billion in goods. Chinese officials have been hoping that campaign would be successful.An extensive interagency effort by civil servants and political appointees produced the $50 billion list of products. They came up with product categories in which they did not want the United States to become more dependent on China. Some products were included for reasons of national security, like components for nuclear reactors and aircraft. Other products were on the list because they were deemed important for economic security, including cars using gasoline, diesel or electricity.China needs to ramp up car exports because its home market, by far the world’s largest, has slowed sharply since last summer, That has left dozens of factories operating at half of capacity or less. Xi Guohua, the president of China’s FAW Group, a giant automaker, said at the forum that automakers and their suppliers directly or indirectly employed 12 percent of the country’s work force. Other estimates have been lower.At a separate gathering on Friday afternoon that was organized by the Center for China and Globalization, a Beijing research group, former senior American and Chinese officials also expressed worry about whether the broader relationship between China and the United States could be quickly fixed even if a trade deal were reached soon.Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers warned that worries about China had become bipartisan.“There is a better than even chance that the Democratic candidate in 2020, in speaking about foreign policy, will criticize Trump for being too conciliatory toward China,” he said.He Yafei, a former Chinese vice minister of foreign affairs, said that a visit to the United States last September had persuaded him that the climate in Washington had been altered.“My view of the future is probably the one that will neither be benign or tragic, but up and down,” he said.When Julian Olidort returned to his Manhattan office after a business trip to Israel five years ago, he said his first priority was “to assemble a team of co-workers” to assist in the delicate handling of a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that emerged 6,000 miles away in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. It was an investment he was eager to pursue.Her name was Sivan Aloni.“She was a very beautiful and intelligent woman with a very different outlook on life,” Mr. Olidort said. “She lived every day at her own pace, and that was something I deeply admired, so I thought if there was ever a chance to meet her again it would be so magical, so worth it.”Mr. Olidort, now 29 and an associate at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Ms. Aloni, now 31 and the adviser to Ambassador Dani Dayan, consul general of Israel in New York, met in Jerusalem in May 2014 at the first Genesis Prize award ceremony. The annual event recognizes achievement steeped in Jewish values. (Michael R. Bloomberg was the first recipient.)Mr. Olidort, just 24 at the time, attended the event in his official role as executive secretary of the Genesis Prize Foundation. He was placed in charge of an international selection committee that included former Supreme Court justices, members of Israel’s parliament, the chief rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregation of the Commonwealth, and Elie Wiesel, the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1986.“Looking back, that was a lot for a young guy to handle,” Mr. Olidort said with a chuckle, “but then again, so was Sivan.”Ms. Aloni, then a 26-year-old student at Hebrew University of Jerusalem working for the Israeli production company that produced the event, was stationed in the guest relations area in charge of coordinating the flow of journalists, panel judges and other attendees during the course of the evening.“I saw her standing there and just kind of froze for a moment,” Mr. Olidort recalled. “I immediately told myself, ‘If this girl could be the one, then I’m satisfied, I’m set for life.’”Unsure how he might relay that sentiment to a woman he had never met in a room teeming with security guards and media personnel, Mr. Olidort continued to stare squarely at Ms. Aloni as he began walking in circles. “I wanted to look busy,” he said, “so I walked out of the room three times, and each time I had to re-enter through security.”Ms. Aloni, who was in the company of several colleagues, could not help but notice the peripatetic stranger who appeared to not know whether he was coming or going.“I glanced over and saw this guy who looked dashing in his suit,” she said. “He also looked like he was half the age of everyone else in attendance.”Mr. Olidort decided the best plan would be to make a beeline for Ms. Aloni, and upon arrival, he did not mince words. “Look, I don’t want to embarrass you in front of your friends,” he said to her, “but may I have your number, I’d love to take you out.”Ms. Aloni, who said she found Mr. Olidort’s bold approach “rather charming,” agreed to have a drink with him later that night, which was a Thursday, but in the company of friends.Mr. Olidort, scheduled to return to New York the next day, chose to join her friends. Despite the fact that he did not get the alone time with her that he desired, he said he awoke the next morning “feeling that she was someone I would flip the whole world over to be with.”He rearranged his travel plans, canceling a trip to Turkey and extending his time in Israel by three more days — until a Tuesday — to get to know Ms. Aloni on a more personal level. He told her he was staying to take care of some unfinished business, but failed to tell her that she, in fact, was the unfinished business.He asked her out to dinner on a Saturday evening, and though Ms. Aloni accepted the invitation, she arrived with several friends in tow, leaving Mr. Olidort a bit flustered.He explained his frustration to her the next morning, on a Sunday, two days before he was to return to New York, and followed his one-on-one request with yet another dinner invite, this one to Manta Ray, a restaurant on the beach in Tel Aviv.Ms. Aloni accepted, agreeing to go solo, she said, “because I could tell by then that Julian was a very sincere person, and a really nice guy.”She could also tell how he was nervous. “At dinner, he kept playing with his food,” she said. “It took him a little while to relax.”Mr. Olidort settled in and the two got to know each other. Ms. Aloni told him that she was born in Petah Tikva, a city in the central district of Israel, and raised in Tel Aviv, the only daughter of Zivit Furstenberg, her mother, who lived in Korazim, Israel, and Raviv Aloni, her father, an information technology specialist who remarried after divorcing Ms. Furstenberg and moved to Brisbane, Australia. Ms. Aloni spent many of her summers in the company of her stepsister and stepbrother in Australia.She graduated from Thelma Yalin National High School of the Arts in Tel Aviv, before serving two years in the Israeli Army, where she was a sergeant in its Yiftah unit, which developed materials for special infantry operations. She went on to Hebrew University, earning a dual degree in Jewish thought and political science.Ms. Aloni and Mr. Olidort soon realized that art played an integral role in both their lives. Her mother was an independent jewelry artist. His mother, Nadia Klionsky-Olidort, was a landscape artist and the senior studio artist for the Echo Design Group in New York, where she designs scarves. She inherited her artistic talent from her father, Marc Klionsky, a Soviet-born artist who developed a nuanced form of American Realism through the eyes of new immigrants in New York City in the 1970s and 1980s.Mr. Klionsky, who died at age 90 in 2017, painted the portraits of many notable leaders and musicians, including Golda Meir, B.B. King and Dizzy Gillespie — the latter still hanging at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington.Mr. Olidort, the younger of two sons born to Ms. Klionsky-Olidort and Joseph Z. Olidort of New York, graduated from Brandeis University and received a master’s degree in international finance and economic policy from Columbia. He was a Fulbright scholar in Sweden, where he conducted economic research on the Swedish glass industry while blowing glass at a factory in the southern Smaland region.He later told Ms. Aloni that after meeting her in Jerusalem, he returned home so fearful of losing her “by saying the wrong thing,” that he turned to his co-workers “for some advice and coaching,” on what they felt were the proper things to say to maintain his newfound, long-distance relationship.“For two months, people kept popping into my office with new ideas, new things to say to her via phone or text,” Mr. Olidort said.Six months later, Mr. Olidort’s emotional investment began paying dividends, as he and Ms. Aloni arranged for a second official date — in Venice, Italy.“He was always up front about his feelings for me,” Ms. Aloni said. “So at that point, I had put a lot of trust and faith in him.”Their rendezvous in Venice, Mr. Olidort said, “felt more like an incredible honeymoon than a second date.”In February 2015, Ms. Aloni visited Mr. Olidort in New York, where she did some sightseeing, job-hunting and soul-searching. In October of that year she returned once more, this time considerably shortening the distance of their long-distance relationship by moving into Mr. Olidort’s Manhattan apartment. She had also accepted a job as a director in the public diplomacy department of the Israeli consulate.“Throughout our relationship Julian kept talking about getting serious and wanting us to have a great life together, and that always felt right with me,” Ms. Aloni said. “So I moved in with him without hesitation and without worry.”They were married on a Tuesday morning, April 2, by Rabbi Haskel Lookstein at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun in Manhattan. The couple were joined by the groom’s parents and his grandmother, Irina Klionsky, who is also the widow of Marc Klionsky. Renée Schreiber and Eran Polishuk, colleagues and friends of the bride, also attended. The bride’s mother tuned in via Skype from her home in Israel.“By the power vested in me as a rabbi and because of the fact that I registered with the city clerk 60 years ago in order to be able to do such a ceremony, I now pronounce you husband and wife, according to the law of the State of New York,” Rabbi Lookstein said playfully. “You are not yet married according to the law of Moses and Israel.”When the brief ceremony ended, the small wedding party went to a nearby deli to celebrate over coffee and bagels.“We fell in love with Sivan the moment we met her,” said the groom’s mother, Ms. Klionsky-Olidort, who was seated inside the deli next to her husband, Joseph Olidort, a civil engineer at Aecom, an engineering firm in New York. “She is his sunshine, the person who brings him the most joy.”The newlyweds would eventually call a cab for Irina Klionsky, 82, and escort her back to her SoHo apartment, where she and Mr. Olidort manage her husband’s art estate. It was also the place where Mr. Olidort proposed to Ms. Aloni in March 2018. (Mr. Olidort said he hoped to put together an exhibit in the near future of Mr. Klionsky’s works, several pieces of which have never been on public display.)“The Jewish community is an important part of our lives,” Mr. Olidort said. “We are both passionate about the continuity of the Jewish people and innovative Jewish education to inspire and engage young people to remain involved with their Jewish heritage.”On April 16, the bride and groom will take part in a celebration ceremony in Jerusalem before 300 family members and friends. Rabbi Lookstein will officiate again at a traditional huppah and reception at Olmaya, an events space there.“I only wish my husband was here to see all of this,” said Irina Klionsky, smiling before her cab arrived as she stared across the crowded deli at the bride and groom.Standing side by side at the noisy deli counter after their wedding, the couple laughed as they pointed to a variety of bagels and other tempting choices on a menu hanging high on a wall above a colorful and somewhat chaotic New York scene. This was modern-day portrait of youthful exuberance the likes of which Marc Klionsky might have captured in his heyday.SHANGHAI — The world's biggest money market mutual fund, overseen by the Chinese billionaire Jack Ma's Ant Financial Group, has relaxed some restrictions on individual investments to stanch a rise in redemptions.Tianhong Yu'e Bao scrapped personal investment quota requirements and a daily subscription cap effective April 10, Tianhong Asset Management Co, the fund's manager, said in a statement late Tuesday.The asset manager said the latest move was meant to "better meet investors' wealth management demand". The earlier restrictions were introduced to keep the Tianhong Yu'e Bao money market fund "in prudent operation in the long run", the statement said.Under the previous rules, individuals were allowed to invest up to a maximum account value of 100,000 yuan ($14,892.25) and daily investments were capped at 20,000 yuan. The elimination of quota requirements and daily caps represent the first relaxation of rules for individual investors following a slew of tightening moves over the past two years.Faced with rising regulatory pressure to shrink its size amid worries over potential systemic risks, Tianhong started to take measures to control the pace of growth of its money market fund in 2017, cutting individual account limits several times.Market analysts said risk appetite has greatly improved since the start of this year with investors preferring stocks and bonds to money market funds, while expectations of easier monetary policy have pushed yields on money market products lower. These changes have led to a rise in redemptions and a drop in the size of money market mutual funds.Launched in 2013, the Tianhong-managed Yu'e Bao fund is the world's largest money market fund. It held 1.13 trillion yuan in net assets at the end of 2018, according to its annual report, down from 1.58 trillion yuan a year earlier. In addition to the Tianhong fund, the Yu'e Bao platform offers 19 money market funds from outside fund managers.Ant Financial Group owns a 51 percent stake in Tianhong Asset Management Co. (This story corrects the 8th paragraph to make the number of money market funds Yu'e Bao platform integrates from outside fund managers 19, instead of 13.) (Reporting by Winni Zhou and Andrew Galbraith, Additional reporting by Josh Horwitz; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)(Reuters) - Marlboro maker Altria Group said on Monday it had received a request for additional information on its investment in e-cigarette market leader Juul Labs Inc from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC).Altria, which bought a 35 percent stake in Juul for $12.8 billion (£9.8 billion) in December, is now looking to convert its non-voting stake in the company to voting shares as per the terms of the investment agreement.The company said the waiting period for the conversion deal had been extended until 30 days after the parties had complied with the FTC's request for documents. The agency is investigating the proposed conversion deal to ensure that it does not violate antitrust law.The proposal would give Altria the right to nominate directors representing a third of Juul's board. The company will otherwise remain independent.E-cigarettes are under pressure from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which released plans in March to slow a surge in teenage use of the popular nicotine devices.The connection to Altria is expected to get Juul improved distribution in convenience stores, as well as such promotion as advertisements in traditional packs of cigarettes. (Reporting by Aishwarya Venugopal in Bengaluru and Diane Bartz in Washington; Editing by James Emmanuel and Rosalba O'Brien)OSLO — Norway will offer telecoms operators to postpone payments for mobile phone frequencies, including 5G networks, in return for investment commitments, the government said on Thursday.The Nordic nation will hold two frequency auctions in June, and will allow operators to postpone payments of up to 90 percent of the fees for two years in order to speed up network construction, it added.  (Reporting by Terje Solsvik, editing by Gwladys Fouche)PARIS — France's Societe Generale plans to cut about 600 jobs at its investment banking unit in Paris and a few hundred more in London and New York, a source at the bank said on Friday.SocGen's Chief Executive Frederic Oudea said two months ago the bank would cut costs by 500 million euros (429.63 million pounds) at its corporate and investment banking business after the unit's profits fell by more than half in the fourth quarter.The bank intends to shift its focus to activities such as equity derivatives, scaling back its fixed-income, currencies and commodities business.SocGen management is due to meet with union representatives to discuss a plan early next week, the source said. "The job cuts will be carried out through voluntary departures," a union representative said on Friday. "This would affect corporate and investment banking jobs as well as people working for dedicated support functions," the representative added.A bank spokesman declined to comment.SocGen Deputy CEO Severin Cabannes, who oversees the corporate and investment banking unit which employs 18,000 people in 30 countries, said in February the restructuring plan would likely include job cuts, but he said it was too early to evaluate how many.In February, the bank fired its head of trading, Frank Drouet, replacing him with Jean-Francois Gregoire, the deputy chief risk officer.After years of low interest rates curtailed returns for retail banking, SocGen, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and other big European banks have relied on the more volatile earnings from corporate and investment banking.Although shares of other major European banks have bounced back this year, SocGen shares are still down three percent. The stock has lost 39 percent over the past 12 months.Oudea, who lowered the bank's profitability targets on Feb. 7 for the third time since he took the helm in 2008, is under pressure from investors and has said the bank will sell more assets than originally planned, mainly in Eastern Europe, to boost the bank's equity ratios. The board has recommended shareholders vote in favour of a new four-year term as CEO at a general meeting next month. (Reporting by Matthieu Protard and Inti Landauro; Editing by GV De Clercq and Kirsten Donovan)LONDON — A British court has shut down UK Renewable Investments (UKRI) after it failed to pay back millions of pounds of investor funds, the government said on Monday.The Business and Property Courts in Manchester, northwest England, wound the firm up last week and has appointed a liquidator.Between July 2015 and September 2016, Darlington, northeast England-based UKRI sold corporate bonds, raising 2.5 million pounds. Investors were told the funds would go to developing plants which generate renewable energy.Most of the money raised was loaned to a separate company, Bio Green Energy Ltd, for construction of the plants but they were never completed, the government said.Bio Green went into administration in 2017 and was unable to repay the capital and interest on the loan. Therefore, UKRI was not able to meet payments due to bondholders."The court found that UKRI's bond scheme had failed and because the company was insolvent, it was unable to meet its liabilities, including what was owed to investors," the government said in a statement. (Reporting by Nina Chestney; Editing by Mark Potter)LONDON — A British court has shut down UK Renewable Investments (UKRI) after it failed to pay back millions of pounds of investor funds, the government said on Monday.The Business and Property Courts in Manchester, northwest England, wound the firm up last week and has appointed a liquidator.Between July 2015 and September 2016, Darlington, northeast England-based UKRI sold corporate bonds, raising 2.5 million pounds. Investors were told the funds would go to developing plants which generate renewable energy.Most of the money raised was loaned to a separate company, Bio Green Energy Ltd, for construction of the plants but they were never completed, the government said.Bio Green went into administration in 2017 and was unable to repay the capital and interest on the loan. Therefore, UKRI was not able to meet payments due to bondholders."The court found that UKRI's bond scheme had failed and because the company was insolvent, it was unable to meet its liabilities, including what was owed to investors," the government said in a statement. (Reporting by Nina Chestney; Editing by Mark Potter)WASHINGTON — Rising trade tensions, tariffs and other barriers threaten to erode a key benefit of trade integration -- lower capital investment costs -- especially for emerging markets, new research from the International Monetary Fund shows.The research, released on Wednesday as part of the IMF's latest World Economic Outlook, found that machinery and capital goods prices have tumbled over the past 30 years amid efficiency gains from globalisation, increased productivity and deeper trade integration.These price reductions have helped make investment an engine of economic expansion in emerging markets, which typically have higher investment costs than wealthier economies due partly to the need for imported goods and technologies. Trade has provided an often-overlooked "tailwind" for such investments, the paper said.For example, the falling cost of solar and wind power products has allowed these technologies to supplant hydro-electric power as the renewal energy sources of choice in emerging markets, the paper said. It also showed that Colombia's tariff reductions in 2011 contributed to a 0.4 percent increase in investment in capital goods. But since the mid-2000s, these effects have waned as trade and productivity gains have slowed, and rising trade barriers could reverse some of these benefits, the IMF said."Hikes in tariffs and non-tariff barriers could disrupt cross-border supply chains and by making production less efficient, slow or even reverse the downward trend in capital goods prices," the Fund said.Disrupted supply chains -- a phenomenon already happening as U.S. tariffs force production of some products away from China -- could raise the cost of goods.The effect could be more pronounced in emerging and developing economies, which already pay a relatively higher price for goods such as computers and machinery, partly because they are less efficient at producing such goods and need to import them. Many emerging market and developing economies still maintain higher tariffs and other trade barriers that raise relative prices for domestic investors. In 2011, effective import tariffs on capital goods were about 4 percent in emerging market countries and about 8 percent in low-income developing countries, compared with close to zero in advanced economies, the IMF said. (Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Bernadette Baum)TOKYO — Japan's machinery orders posted their first monthly increase in four months in February due to improved demand from the energy and telecommunications sectors but weakening global conditions remain major challenges for the world's third-largest economy.The 1.8 percent increase month-on-month in core machinery orders, an often volatile leading indicator of capital expenditure, followed a 5.4 percent decline in the previous month.But the expansion was weaker than the median forecast for a 2.5 percent increase in a Reuters poll of economists. It is also unlikely to ease concerns that companies could drastically cut business investment due to the U.S.-Sino trade war and rising inventories of electronic parts."The rebound in machinery orders is not as strong as it seems, and companies are likely to remain cautious because their business plans depend a lot on the global economy," said Shuji Tonouchi, senior market economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities."In the current environment, Japan's growth is likely to be somewhat sluggish."Orders from manufacturers rose 3.5 percent in February, following a 1.9 percent month-on-month decline in January, Cabinet Office data showed on Wednesday.Orders from non-manufacturers fell 0.8 percent month-on-month in February after an 8.0 percent decline in January from the previous month.Of some encouragement for policymakers, machinery orders from overseas rose 19.0 percent, recovering from an 18.1 percent tumble in January."Core" machinery orders exclude those for ships and from electricity utilities.The United States and China are trying to narrow their differences over trade but are yet to agree to a deal that would unwind punitive tariffs and restore global trade flows.The two countries have been embroiled in a tit-for-tat tariff battle since July 2018, which has roiled supply chains. Japanese manufactures rely on selling heavy machinery and electronic parts to companies operating in China, which are used to make finished goods.Adding another source of concern for policymakers are Tokyo's own trade talks with the United States expected later this month, which could potentially threaten Japan's auto exports to the U.S. market.Economists say uncertainty over trade policy could discourage Japanese companies from increasing capital expenditure, which will act as a curb on economic growth.Another risk for Japan's economy is the government's plan to raise the nationwide sales tax to 10 percent from 8 percent in October. The government needs the extra revenue for rising welfare costs, but the tax hike could also weaken consumer spending. (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Sam Holmes)NEW YORK — Goldman Sachs Group Inc's global head of the investment bank's consumer and retail group, Rob Sweeney, will step down at the end of April, according to an internal memo seen by Reuters.Stephan Feldgoise, co-head of mergers and acquisitions in the Americas, will replace Sweeney as head of the investment banking team, which advises consumer facing-companies.Sweeney is leaving to join an unnamed private equity firm, according to a source familiar with his plans. Under Sweeney's leadership, Goldman's consumer and retail group ranked No. 1 in several global league tables last year.He advised General Mills Inc on its 2018 acquisition of Blue Buffalo and Yum! Brands Inc on the separation of its China business. He also led the initial public offerings for Under Armour Inc, Lululemon Athletica Inc and Canada Goose Holdings. Feldgoise, who will maintain his current duties as co-head of mergers and acquisitions in the Americas, will be tasked with keeping the global consumer and retail group at No. 1, deepening client relationships and developing a global team, according to the memo signed by the heads of the investment bank, Gregg Lemkau, Dan Dees and Marc Nachmann. Feldgoise is known for his work advising on the merger of U.S. drugstore chain Walgreens with the European group Alliance Boots Holdings Ltd. He also advised on Westlake Chemical Corp's 2016 acquisition of Axiall Corp and Tesoro Corp's $4.1 billion purchase of Western Refining Inc. Feldgoise, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1997, was previously a senior member of the consumer retail group. As leader of the group, he will also join the investment banking division's executive committee. (Reporting By Elizabeth Dilts; Editing by David Gregorio and Steve Orlofsky)(Reuters) - Citigroup Inc reported higher-than-expected earnings on Monday despite declining revenue as the New York-based lender cut costs, grew its investment-banking business and expanded net-interest margin. Still, Citi improved its results in ways, including expense cutting, that may be tough to replicate in future quarters. A lower tax rate also played a big role in Citi’s improvement from a year ago. The bank’s income from continuing operations declined slightly. On a call with reporters, Chief Financial Officer Mark Mason said the decline was due in part to a divestiture last year. But net income rose because the bank's effective tax rate declined to 21 percent from 24 percent a year earlier.Citi has been investing in digital capability to try to win deposits domestically despite its light U.S. branch network. Chief Executive Mike Corbat said in a statement its efforts are showing positive early results. But the bank is still growing deposits faster abroad than in the United States: International consumer deposits rose 3 percent during the quarter, while retail North American deposits edged up 1 percent.JPMorgan Chase & Co on Friday reported that its U.S. consumer deposits were up 3 percent from a year earlier.Corbat also pointed to the bank's improved 11.9-percent return on average tangible common shareholder’s equity and the $5.1 billion it returned in capital to shareholders during the quarter. “Both our consumer and institutional businesses performed well and we saw good momentum in those areas where we have been investing,” he said.Investment banking revenue rose 20 percent to $1.4 billion (£1.1 billion), as strong growth in advisory and investment-grade debt underwriting more than offset a drop in equity underwriting.Bond trading rose 1 percent in sharp contrast to Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, both of which reported double-digit declines. But a 24-percent drop in equities trading pressured Citi's overall revenue, which fell 2 percent to $18.58 billion, slightly below analysts' estimates.Revenue from consumer banking, the bank's largest business, was flat at $8.5 billion, due to weakness in Asia. North American branded cards revenue jumped 5 percent during the quarter, including the impact of a one-time gain the year before.In 2018, Citigroup ranked third in the United States for outstanding credit-card loans, with an 11.4 percent market share, behind first-place JPMorgan Chase and second-place American Express, according to The Nilson Report.Earlier this year, the bank said it would earn $2 billion more in revenue from lending activities than it did in 2018.Total loans at the third-largest U.S. bank by assets rose 3 percent to $682.3 billion, while deposits grew 5 percent to $1.03 trillion, excluding foreign exchange fluctuations.Citi's net-interest margin, a closely watched metric, expanded 8 basis points to 2.72 percent in the quarter. Total operating expenses fell 3 percent to $10.58 billionLeading into the reporting season some analysts feared that net interest margin would peak since the Federal Reserve signalled it would not raise interest rates this year. On a call with analysts, Mason said that a rate cut or the absence of a rate hike would not have a material impact on results for the year. Net income rose to $4.71 billion, or $1.87 per share, for the first quarter ended March 31 from $4.62 billion, or $1.68 per share, a year earlier.Analysts were looking for a profit of $1.80 per share, according to IBES data from Refinitiv. (Reporting by Imani Moise in New York and Sidharth Cavale in Bengaluru; Editing by Nick Zieminski and Phil Berlowitz)LONDON — Brexit may be causing all sorts of uncertainty in Britain but it doesn't seem to be putting off foreign investors.In a survey on corporate deal-making published Monday, consulting and accounting firm EY says Britain is the top investment destination in the world for the first time in the report's 10-year history — overtaking the United States, which has held the top spot since 2014.The pound's fall since the June 2016 vote to leave the European Union has made British assets cheaper, but Steve Krouskos, a global vice chair at EY, notes Britain also remains an "open environment for foreign investors" even in the midst of the Brexit chaos. That culture, he said, is reinforced by the English language, a skilled workforce, and a strong technology base.Those long-standing strengths have helped Britain recover as a place to do business since the shock of the June 2016 referendum, which saw the country narrowly vote to leave the EU. With so much uncertainty surrounding the future of the British economy, the country slumped down EY's rankings. In the October 2016 survey, Britain was as low as seventh.There have been a number of high-profile investments in Britain over the past year, including Comcast's purchase of satellite broadcaster Sky for around 30 billion pounds (currently $39 billion) and Coca-Cola's takeover of Costa Coffee for near 4 billion pounds ($5.2 billion).Krouskos said he hasn't encountered executives who want Britain to crash out of the EU without a deal and that the remainder are "split down the middle" between those who want the country to leave the bloc smoothly with a deal and those who want Brexit stopped.Britain's exit from the EU, originally scheduled for March 29, has been delayed until Oct. 31, though it could happen sooner should British lawmakers back the withdrawal agreement that Prime Minister Theresa May negotiated with the EU. Following three defeats in Parliaments, May opted to ask for an extension rather than crash out of the bloc, a scenario that many politicians and business leaders say could lead to a deep recession as tariffs are slapped on British exports and other restrictions are imposed on trade.EY found that global interest in mergers and acquisitions is at a 10-year high as managers try to adapt to technological change, with 59% of companies planning a deal in the next year, up from 52% a year ago.The improvement appears at odds with a slowdown in the global economy. Last week, the International Monetary Fund cut its global growth forecast for this year to 3.3% from 3.5%, largely because of trade tensions, particularly between China and the U.S.Krouskos said the mood among executives is better than the growth forecasts suggest."The increase in acquisition appetite is a clear indication that executives are focused on their pursuit of growth, underpinned by high expectations of their own future performance," he said."There is uncertainty in the market, but for many, disruption is driving M&A rather than stalling it — deals are a means to reshape portfolios at an accelerated pace and futureproof businesses."EY surveyed 2,900 senior executives across 47 countries in February and March 2019.SYDNEY — Citigroup is refunding more than A$3 million (£1.7 million) to retail customers in Australia who suffered losses from complex investments sold by the bank without adequate advice, the country's corporate watchdog said on Monday.The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) said it had concerns the bank's financial advisers had sold the complex products without complying with regulatory and disclosure obligations required to provide personal financial advice.Following an investigation by the regulator, Citi will refund 114 customers who invested in complex fixed coupon products and other capital at risk products between 2013 and 2017 and lost money, the regulator said in a statement.The bank will also give customers with remaining investments in the products an opportunity to exit "without cost," the regulator said.Following ASIC's investigation, Citi on Jan. 1, 2018, stopped selling structured products to retail clients without adequate personal financial advice, it said."While Citi maintains the view that none of its actions amounted to a breach of its obligations, Citi has acknowledged ASIC's concerns and is making a payment to this (small) group of clients," a Citi spokeswoman said in an emailed statement.The bank confirmed it no longer offers the products to Australian retail investors without taking into account their personal circumstances and providing them with personal advice.It has completed about 75 percent of the refunds, the spokeswoman said.Citi is also defending a lawsuit brought against it by the country's competition regulator over a 2015 capital raising. (Reporting by Paulina Duran; Editing by Chris Gallagher)TOKYO/BENGALURU — Panasonic Corp and Tesla Inc will continue to make new investments in the U.S. electric carmaker's Gigafactory as needed, but believe they can squeeze more out of existing resources than previously planned, Tesla said on Thursday.Separately, Panasonic said it was watching the demand situation in the electric car market before making any further investments in expanding the capacity of the Nevada plant.The two companies were responding to a report by Japan's Nikkei that said they had frozen previous plans to raise the capacity of the plant, which supplies battery packs for Tesla cars."Both Tesla and Panasonic continue to invest substantial funds into Gigafactory," a Tesla spokesperson said."That said, we believe there is far more output to be gained from improving existing production equipment than was previously estimated."Giving no details of its sources, the Nikkei reported that financial issues had led the companies to rethink plans to expand the capacity of Gigafactory 1 by another 50 percent next year.The business daily said the companies had already together invested $4.5 billion in the facility and had been planning to expand the plant's capacity to the equivalent of 54 gigawatt hours (GWh) a year in 2020 from 35 GWh at present.The 35 GWh capacity can produce batteries for about 500,000 electric vehicles a year, a source familiar with Tesla's plans said, meaning that the previously planned expansion would have made the capacity enough for around 770,000 electric vehicles. "Panasonic established a battery production capacity of 35 GWh in Tesla's Gigafactory 1 by the end of March 2019 in line with growing demand," Japan-based Panasonic said in an email. "Watching the demand situation, Panasonic will study additional investments over 35 GWh in collaboration with Tesla."Neither company had made public their detailed future development plans for the site, although Panasonic said in October it was in talks to add to its investment and take capacity over the 35 GWh. Tesla slid 2.8 percent on the Nasdaq Thursday, while Panasonic shares rose 2.6 percent in midday Tokyo trade Friday."Panasonic shares have been dragged down by various Tesla woes," Masayuki Otani, chief market analyst at Securities Japan. "Turning cautious about further investments is good for Panasonic. It helps the company reduce the influence of Tesla." Panasonic is the exclusive battery cell supplier for Tesla, which in turn is Panasonic's biggest electric vehicle battery client. In February, Tesla said it had agreed to buy U.S. energy storage company Maxwell Technologies Inc, sending shares in Panasonic lower.Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also said in November the U.S. company would manufacture all its battery modules and packs at its new Shanghai factory and planned to diversify its sources.The Nikkei report said Panasonic would also suspend its planned investment in Tesla's new Shanghai plant and would instead provide technical support and a small number of batteries from the Gigafactory.The Japanese company said in October it would prioritize building additional capacity at the Gigafactory over China.Lower-than-expected car deliveries by Tesla in the first quarter spooked stock and bond investors earlier this month, adding to Wall Street's concerns about its future cashflow.Tesla is expected to report first-quarter earnings on April 24. (Reporting by Vibhuti Sharma in Bengaluru; Editing by Patrick Graham, Anil D'Silva and Shounak Dasgupta)TOKYO/BENGALURU — Panasonic Corp and Tesla Inc will continue to make new investments in the U.S. electric carmaker's Gigafactory as needed, but believe they can squeeze more out of existing resources than previously planned, Tesla said on Thursday.Separately, Panasonic said it was watching the demand situation in the electric car market before making any further investments in expanding the capacity of the Nevada plant.The two companies were responding to a report by Japan's Nikkei that said they had frozen previous plans to raise the capacity of the plant, which supplies battery packs for Tesla cars."Both Tesla and Panasonic continue to invest substantial funds into Gigafactory," a Tesla spokesperson said."That said, we believe there is far more output to be gained from improving existing production equipment than was previously estimated."Giving no details of its sources, the Nikkei reported https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Tesla-and-Panasonic-freeze-spending-on-4.5bn-Gigafactory that financial issues had led the companies to rethink plans to expand the capacity of Gigafactory 1 by another 50 percent next year.The business daily said the companies had already together invested $4.5 billion in the facility and had been planning to expand the plant's capacity to the equivalent of 54 gigawatt hours (GWh) a year in 2020 from 35 GWh at present."Panasonic established a battery production capacity of 35 GWh in Tesla's Gigafactory 1 by the end of March 2019 in line with growing demand," Japan-based Panasonic said in an email. "Watching the demand situation, Panasonic will study additional investments over 35 GWh in collaboration with Tesla."Neither company had made public detailed future development plans for the site, although Panasonic said https://www.reuters.com/article/us-panasonic-batteries-idUSKBN1JS08J in July last year it would consider further investment in the Gigafactory if requested by the U.S. electric carmaker.Panasonic is the exclusive battery cell supplier for Tesla, which in turn is Panasonic's biggest EV battery client. In February, Tesla said it had agreed to buy U.S. energy storage company Maxwell Technologies Inc, sending shares in Panasonic lower.Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also said in November the U.S. company would manufacture all its battery modules and packs at its new Shanghai factory and planned to diversify its sources.The Nikkei report said Panasonic would also suspend its planned investment in Tesla's new Shanghai plant and would instead provide technical support and a small number of batteries from the Gigafactory.The Japanese company has only said that it was studying various possibilities with regards to the plant.Lower-than-expected car deliveries by Tesla in the first quarter spooked stock and bond investors earlier this month, adding to Wall Street's concerns about its future cashflow.Tesla is expected to report first-quarter earnings on April 24. (Reporting by Vibhuti Sharma in Bengaluru; Editing by Patrick Graham, Anil D'Silva and Shounak Dasgupta)MOSCOW — Rusal is making its first investment in the United States since Washington lifted sanctions against the Russian aluminum giant, teaming up with U.S. manufacturer Braidy Industries to build a mill in Kentucky.Rusal, the world's largest aluminum producer outside China, announced the deal in one of the main markets for the sector less then three months after it was removed from a blacklist. It had already resumed supplies to the U.S. market.The U.S. imposed sanctions on Rusal and its co-owner Oleg Deripaska in April 2018. Sanctions against Rusal and its parent En+, were lifted in January as Deripaska reduced his stake after months of talks and several extensions of the deadline for sanctions to take full effect..Rusal and aluminum alloys manufacturer Braidy will create a joint project to produce flat-rolled aluminum products for the U.S. automotive industry, the Russian company said on Monday."The output from the mill will aid toward rebalancing the anticipated deficit of the auto body sheet in the U.S. market," Rusal said in a statement.The Atlas mill will be the first greenfield aluminum mill in the United States for 37 years, Braidy and En+ said."In 2021, Braidy Atlas will make the largest order for primary aluminum rolling slab worldwide," Braidy Chief Executive Craig Bouchard said.The binding documentation for the mill in Ashland, Kentucky, which will be 40 percent owned by Rusal and 60 percent by Braidy is expected to be signed by July, Rusal said. It will have an annual capacity of 500,000 tonnes of hot-rolled band and 300,000 tonnes of finished cold-rolled products. Rusal plans to supply aluminum slab alloys and primary metal for the new mill from its Taishet aluminum smelter that is currently under construction in Siberia. Rusal previously planned to launch the Taishet smelter in late 2020.The Russian company intends to invest $200 million in this mill and supply about 2 million tonnes of low-carbon aluminum over 10 years worth about $500 million per year. Rusal produced 3.8 million tonnes of aluminum in 2018. It historically has been the number two non-domestic supplier of prime aluminum in the United States, Braidy said.  (Reporting by Polina Devitt, Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky, Sherry Jacob-Phillips and Alexander Smith)Three of the first quarter’s top-performing mutual funds won big by favoring small- and midcap growth stocks, toting up quarterly returns of 25 percent or more.The Virtus Zevenbergen Innovative Growth Stock Fund buys shares of companies of all sizes — its largest holding lately has been Amazon — but its big winners, so far this year, have been smaller fare such as WayFair, an online seller of home furnishings, and the Trade Desk, an online advertising marketplace.Nancy A. Zevenbergen, the fund’s lead manager, said her interest in growth stocks dates to the ’80s. She worked then in the trust department of a Seattle bank and followed — and was fascinated by — the 1986 initial public stock sale of a homegrown outfit named Microsoft. (Microsoft is based in the Seattle suburb of Redmond, Wash.) A year later, she started Zevenbergen Capital Investments in Seattle. Her mutual fund began in 2004.Being on the West Coast has proved an advantage, she said. Not only has Seattle birthed tech giants like Microsoft and Amazon, but “Silicon Valley is a day trip for us,” she said.Throughout her career, she has sought stocks she thinks can keep increasing revenue by at least 15 percent a year. Her mantra is: “Revenue growth, revenue growth, revenue growth,” she said.Favorite holdings can stay in the fund for years: Mercadolibre, an Argentine e-commerce outfit, has been there for a decade. That stock was lately one of only 31 in the fund, compared with 157 for the average actively managed United States stock fund tracked by Morningstar.Ms. Zevenbergen says she prefers companies that are run by their founders. As an example, she pointed to Microsoft. The stock soared while one of the founders, Bill Gates, steered the company but languished under his successor, Steven A. Ballmer. What’s more, boards of directors are typically not as patient with outsider C.E.O.s, and long-term investments require patience, she said.Her liking for founder-led outfits is part of the reason her fund has owned Tesla, the electric-car maker led by Elon Musk, since its 2010 initial public stock offering. Despite Tesla’s recent operational problems, she said: “Elon Musk is doing things people said couldn’t be done — and he’s up against an old, established industry and organized labor.”Ms. Zevenbergen added: “You can often get a C.E.O. with an M.B.A. from Harvard, but do they have the passion to run the business that the founder had?”The Virtus Zevenbergen fund, whose A shares have a net expense ratio of 1.25 percent, returned 25.24 percent in the first quarter, compared with a total return of 13.65 percent for the S&P 500 stock index.Alger SMid Cap Focus FundMatthew A. Weatherbie, one of the managers of the Alger SMid Cap Focus Fund, has been chasing growth stocks even longer than Ms. Zevenbergen. His investment career began in the ’70s, and he ran Putnam Voyager, then a well-known fund, starting in 1983. He left Putnam to start his own investment company in 1995, and he has managed the Alger fund since 2017. (Alger Associates acquired Mr. Weatherbie’s company in 2017.)Like Ms. Zevenbergen, he said his investment philosophy has remained consistent. “There have been some tweaks over time, but the basic process is the same,” he said. He and his co-managers seek companies in a growth sweet spot, he said. “They’ve been in business long enough to survive the perils of infancy, but they’ve got a long runway of growth ahead of them.”Holdings also must have “a competitive moat around the business, a strong balance sheet, high inherent profitability and a high-quality management team,” he said.To assemble the portfolio, the fund’s managers and analysts collaborate to identify 50 holdings that meet these criteria. Mr. Weatherbie and his co-portfolio managers — H. George Dai and Joshua D. Bennett — next take an unusual step.They divide the portfolio into three baskets. The managers then independently evaluate the 50 stocks, each determining the portion of the fund’s assets dedicated to each stock in his basket. As a result, the fund’s largest stakes are the stocks most favored by all three.“Why is Chegg or FirstService a top five holding?” Mr. Weatherbie asked. “Because each of us has determined that those are high-conviction names.”Chegg is an education-services company, while FirstService is a property manager and service provider for condos and cooperatives.Mr. Bennett said both companies exemplify something the managers hunt for: They’re fast growers in “mundane markets” not associated with zippy stocks in the way, say, consumer electronics and online entertainment are. Mr. Weatherbie added: “Our process enables us to identify hidden gems in mundane industries.”The Alger fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 1.33 percent, returned 30.58 percent in the first quarter.Lord Abbett Developing Growth FundF. Thomas O’Halloran, the lead manager of the Lord Abbett Developing Growth Fund, seeks companies that show both disruption and momentum. For example, he has won lately with such well-known names as Yeti Holdings, the maker of insulated cups and coolers, and Roku, the video streaming outfit.These companies are disrupting their industries, he says, and their shares have lately trended upward.Take Roku and its streaming devices, which compete with ones sold by such tech behemoths as Apple and Amazon. “It’s not that one form of streaming is better than another,” Mr. O’Halloran said. “It’s that streaming is better than cable and regular TV, and Roku is the only Swiss-neutral platform.” Other devices are interwoven with technologies or business models peddled by their sellers.Mr. O’Halloran said he often finds promising picks among consumer stocks for the simple reason that consumer purchases drive growth in the United States. “That’s where 70 percent of spending in U.S. economy is,” he said.When considering what to wager on, Mr. O’Halloran said, he prefers companies with hefty potential markets — like Yeti. “The whole planet likes its food and beverages at the right temperature,” he said.He differs from some portfolio managers in that he bars members of his analyst team from writing reports on the companies they follow, relying instead on quick emails and frequent meetings. Churning out reports can lead to delays and self-defeating behavior, he said. “By the time you get a report done, a quarter to half of the stock move may be over. And when the stock peaks, you don’t want to let it go, because you wrote the big report on it.”Mr. O’Halloran’s fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 0.93 percent, returned 27.13 percent in the first quarter.(Reuters) - In addition investing more than $25 billion in Didi, Uber, Ola, Grab and Cruise, SoftBank Group Corp and its investment arms have poured another $5 billion into eight companies involved in some aspect of transportation.Among the startups that are part of SoftBank's growing web:- Chehaodua, a Chinese online vehicle retailer whose brand name is Guazi. Investment: $1.5 billion- Manbang, a Chinese logistics group that merged with Huochebang (Full Truck Alliance). Investment: $1 billion.- Nuro, a U.S. maker of automated delivery robots. Investment: $940 million.- Auto1 Group, a German online auto retailer. Investment: $560 million.- Cambridge Mobile Telematics, a U.S. provider of data analytics. Investment: $500 million.- Zume Pizza, a U.S. developer of automated delivery vehicles. Investment: $375 million.- Loggi, a Brazilian logistics firm. Investment: $111 million.- Zhong An, a Chinese online insurance provider. Investment: $100 million.Source: CB Insights  (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit and Heather Somerville in San Francisco; editing by Edward Tobin)ORLANDO, Fla. — A 90-year-old Florida woman who took home $278 million from a winning Powerball ticket six years ago is suing her son and his financial advisers, claiming the money was put into low-return investments while she was being charged $2 million in fees.The lawsuit filed by Gloria Mackenzie last month in state court in Jacksonville against her son, Scott, and his financial advisers, alleges breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, negligence and exploitation of a vulnerable adult.Scott Mackenzie had power of attorney over his mother's finances.As the widow of a mill worker, and with little money until she was in her 80s, Gloria Mackenzie says she had scant education in managing a large sum of money and relied on her son."Prior to her good fortune, Gloria was living in a small, rented duplex ... for $375 a month," the lawsuit said. "Her income was modest, fixed, and derived from her monthly Social Security and small widow's pension."The low-return investments in CDs and money market accounts cost her tens of millions of dollars that she could have earned with another investment strategy, the lawsuit said.Scott Mackenzie said in court papers that there's no basis for a lawsuit just because investments didn't grow the way his mother preferred and the value of the investments never decreased.His mother's claims "are based solely on allegations that Scott introduced Gloria to an investment adviser who put her in conservative investment vehicles, in accordance with her chosen investment objectives, and effectively preserved her wealth," he said in court papers.In May 2013, then age 84, Gloria Mackenzie purchased a winning Powerball ticket worth $590 million. After agreeing to get a lump sum and deducting taxes, Gloria Mackenzie took home $278 million. She gave half of her winning to her son, who had promised to care for her for the rest of her life, according to her lawsuit.When the family of Gloria Mackenzie's daughter informed her that the financial adviser, Hank Madden, had previously faced professional discipline, Scott Mackenzie threatened to disinherit them, the lawsuit said. Madden hosts a local radio call-in show offering financial advice.A judge previously dismissed a similar lawsuit but allowed Gloria Mackenzie to file the amended complaint.(Reuters) - SoftBank Group Corp leader Masayoshi Son has much bigger ambitions for transportation than simply seeing his investment in Uber Technologies Inc turn into more than $13 billion when the company goes public next month. The Japanese entrepreneur is placing a $60 billion bet in more than 40 companies in a bid to steer the $3 trillion global automotive industry now dominated by vehicles people own and drive to a spectrum of transportation services available at the touch of a smartphone app. Those services range from ride hailing and car sharing to delivery robots and self-driving vehicles.The extent of those investments, based on a Reuters analysis of publicly available data and interviews with a dozen sources familiar with SoftBank's investment strategy, has not previously been reported. They show how Son has emerged as one of the power players trying to influence how people and goods move about the world in the coming decades. Graphic: Softbank's future mobility investments, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2UQXn4F Key partners in Son's quest are Uber, the U.S. ride services leader, and Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. Uber's planned initial public stock offering in May is expected to value the company at $90 billion to $100 billion, representing a potential windfall to SoftBank, which put $8 billion into Uber for a 15 percent stake in January 2018. The rising value of that investment will further supercharge Son’s growing clout in the sector, and eventually provide him with additional capital to invest in mobility. Closer to home, Toyota approached Son more than a year ago about a partnership, and SoftBank in February 2018 signed a memorandum of understanding with the automaker to consider how they might jointly develop mobility services, according to sources familiar with the document. The agreement was followed by the launch of a joint venture dubbed Monet Technologies, designed to set up automated mobility services.SoftBank and Toyota are also in talks to co-lead a $1 billion investment in Uber's self-driving unit, Reuters reported in March. While the deal is close to being finalized, discussions remain ongoing around issues such as how much of the unit SoftBank would control, sources told Reuters.Toyota declined to comment for this story. In an interview with Reuters, SoftBank Group Chief Operating Officer Marcelo Claure said that the two Japanese companies "have a lot sessions in which we think and we try to redefine the future of mobility." Central to those sessions are discussions about how Toyota and SoftBank can collaborate to bring autonomous vehicles to Japan, he said.Son has been working since 2014 to weave together a tapestry of diverse transportation bets. His deep portfolio of investments range literally from A to Z: From Arm, a British semiconductor maker that Son acquired in 2016 for $32 billion, to Zume Pizza, a Silicon Valley startup that aims to automate pizza delivery and raised $375 million last year from SoftBank. A FAMILY AFFAIRSoftBank has used at least five investment vehicles, including the $100 billion Vision Fund, from which to make its mobility investments, public records show. Its deep pockets, aggressive investing tactics and sweeping vision of the future of transportation give SoftBank and its leader Son an outsized influence in shaping the entire industry. The Vision Fund has more than 30 investment professionals who work to promote cooperation and integration among the portfolio companies, which they refer to as a "family." "We can create this web where companies talk to each other and they help each other because they are part of the same family and they do joint ventures and they do joint investments," Claure said.SoftBank and its affiliates have focused some of their biggest investments on self-driving firm Cruise, a unit of GM, and four global ride-services giants — Uber, Didi Chuxing, Ola and Grab. SoftBank is the largest shareholder in the four ride-services companies and the largest outside shareholder in Cruise.Son "is the true emperor of future mobility," said Tom De Vleesschauwer, senior director of long-term planning and sustainability at IHS Automotive.To help implement his vision, Son also allied with General Motors Co and Honda Motor Co, each of which is investing heavily in self-driving vehicles and ride services. Son laid out his future of transportation vision in an October press conference alongside Toyota, where he talked about building a "cluster" of leading mobility companies in different sectors, which "can collaborate with each other."Toyota a year ago introduced e-Palette, an electric shuttle designed for self-driving ride and delivery services, and quickly signed up Uber and Didi as development partners. The e-Palette is also the centerpiece of Monet Technologies, which added Honda as a minority partner in March. All are tied back to SoftBank. That collaboration is expected to enable some SoftBank companies to become "superapps," or applications where customers go for a range of services, such as transportation, shopping and payments. Such companies can be much more lucrative than those that offer just one core business or service. But the fact that many of SoftBank's companies are rivals can complicate the investor's ambitions. Uber and Ola, the Indian ride-hailing company, remain fierce competitors and are never in the same room when SoftBank discusses ride-hailing strategies, Claure said.Traditionally in venture capital, funds do not invest in direct competitors."There are tremendous synergies, but on the other hand there is significant risk of tremendous conflicts of interest," said Paul Asel, managing partner at NGP Capital and a longtime mobility investor.There are limits to the investor's influence, however. For example, SoftBank encouraged Cruise to acquire or take a stake in self-driving startup Nuro, but talks between the companies never led to a deal, according to two sources with knowledge of the matter.So SoftBank made its own, $940 million investment in Nuro.HUNTING BIG GAMEIn his five-year transportation push, Son's stakes in ride services startups now look like bargains. In late 2014, SoftBank joined Alibaba, China's internet giant in which SoftBank also has a stake, in a $600 million funding round in Kuaidi Dache, the forerunner of China's Didi.That investment has grown to more than $11 billion in Didi, in which SoftBank now holds more than 20 percent.SoftBank's partnerships with major automakers are also proving to be a boon to transportation startups. Toyota invested in Uber in 2016, then boosted its stake seven months after SoftBank's investment. Honda followed SoftBank with an investment into Grab, and last year committed $2.75 billion to Cruise's self-driving project, aiding SoftBank's ambitions.But the SoftBank portfolio is not without risks, particularly for companies dependent on the Japanese firm to sustain them financially for years to come. SoftBank faces financial pressures, including an obligation to pay an annual 7 percent dividend on a portion of the invested capital and has burnt through the majority of the Vision Fund.And it is compelled by a new U.S. law cracking down on foreign investment in technology to submit many of its mobility investments to a government regulatory agency for approval. Should that regulatory group block a deal, it could be catastrophic to a startup.But there is some safety for Son given the size of his portfolio. "He's shooting for big game," Roger Lanctot, global automotive practice director at Strategy Analytics, said of Son. "He only needs to bag one or two and he will do just fine." (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit and Heather Somerville in San Francisco; editing by Edward Tobin)